---
title: 'Eugene Curnow trail marathon'
date: "2013-07-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 'Running'
---

It was Tuesday. I had completed the Afton 50k three days before and was still hobbling around on uncharacteristically sore legs. It was, therefore, a rather questionable choice when I responded decisively to a friend's Facebook post asking if anyone wanted to join him at the Eugene Curnow trail marathon in just four days. My justification was this: on paper, it looked like an easy, flat, and fast course. I knew nothing about the history of the race, or that flood related changes resulted in unique courses for 2012 and 2013. The 2012 course happened to be a bit easier...the 2013 course? Hard. Really hard.

The alarm sounded Saturday morning at 3:25am. We'd been up until midnight, listening first to our lively neighbors playfully ruminating on Jet Skis and Prima donnas, and then to the passing thunderstorm. Last minute planning had us spending the night at a KOA campground. I inwardly snickered when the WiFi password and location of the hot tub were revealed. Under different circumstances, it might be fun to reacquaint myself with the silliness and indulgence of KOA camping. In any case, it was early, we hadn't slept long, and I didn't have any coffee. It was going to be a challenge.

Lightning could still be seen flickering in the distance. We had been spared the deluge while breaking camp and eating breakfast, but I anticipated that we *would* get wet. In Carlton, we boarded the shuttle transport to the starting line on Spirit Mountain. It started to rain. After a short time, we found ourselves precariously positioned on a mountain-top dead end, where the bus driver was forced to re-enact the scene from Austin Powers. The clamor from the back of the bus was one of panic. "No further! Stop!" For a bunch of wily trail runners, they certainly didn't have a sense of adventure. The wheels were still firmly planted on the ground, and only the rear of the bus teetered over the side of the "mountain". With the help of one of the racers, the driver rectified his mistake and found the parking lot. Just as we got off the bus, it began to rain furiously.

I stood in line for the port-a-potty, becoming increasingly wet and cold. After spending a restless night trying to sleep through heat and humidity, it was strange to be clutching myself, wishing that I could crawl back in to the tent and curl up in my sleeping bag. We picked up our race numbers and waited under a small tent until the rain subsided.

The start of the race was low-key. It felt *grassroots*. Mike and I settled in near the middle of the pack. The pace was mercilessly slow, but the endless line of runners discouraged moving up, so we just settled in and waited for things to work themselves out. They always do.

A couple miles in, we discovered *why* things had not spread out, when we were confronted with "Jarrow's beach". This was a section of around a mile that consisted of a continuous line of jagged, uneven, and wet rocks. These were not small rocks. No way. They were ankle bending, shin bashing puzzle pieces that had to be traversed with care and caution. I'm sure even the fast guys had to take it easy in that section. Later I would hear from a local runner that the section is much more runnable when the rocks aren't wet. We suffered through a near 20 minute mile and were back on runnable terrain. 

We started moving better for a while. The terrain was a little bit easier, punctuated only by oddities such as crossing an old plank bridge from which you could look down at any moment and have a view of the gorge below through the menacing gaps in the timber. The sense that this was not a slick and commercial trail race was heightened. I liked it. I was ready for an adventure. 

I don't recall a lot of the terrain in this section, only that I was beginning to get hot. The temperatures weren't high, but the rain had stopped and the humidity felt like a warm, wet blanket. Soon we hit the first of "the powerlines". It is difficult to adequately describe how difficult it was to get up and down these sharp ascents and descents. While the elevation gain/loss is not that impressive, it is important to understand that at times you were forced to crawl on all fours to maintain enough traction to continue moving on the slippery mud.

After making it through the powerlines, I began to struggle with the issue that would haunt me for the rest of the day--I was carrying only one 10oz. water bottle. I expected the course to be faster and the day to be cooler, so I arrogantly thought I would be able to get between aid stations with such little water. The five mile stretch containing the powerlines and subsequent descent took around an hour, and I rolled into the aid station feeling very dehydrated. I told Mike that I needed to hang out at the aid station and rehydrate, and that he should just go ahead. I was on my own.

I did exactly that. I drank four glasses of water, and took a moment to allow the sloshing to subside. The next aid station would be another five miles, and at the pace the terrain was dictating, another hour-long trek. I knew that I'd have to run easy and hike a lot of the hills in order to arrive at the next water stop feeling anything less than terrible. So, I got busy doing that. It helped that there was a second section of completely unrunnable powerline ascents and descents. 

The course was absolutely beautiful, and I took a lot of time during this stretch to appreciate it. It was *wild*. Most races are *tame*--they're on well maintained and established trails with inconveniences and dangers largely eliminated. Telling Mike to go ahead freed me to respond more to my body and the environment without fearing my diminishing physical state would negatively impact his race. I enjoyed the stretch and came in to the next aid station feeling a little bit better.

I had a brief low point around mile 18, but then started to feel good again. I had run conservatively for around an hour and a half, and I had my hydration back under control. I started running more of the ascents, and slowly picking my way back through the field. There were a number of stream crossings in this section, and splashing around like a child gave me an emotional boost. I left the last aid station feeling great.

The section from the last aid station to the finish was my favorite. I let myself push harder, passing a lot of people as we slowly rose above the Saint Louis River. It was technical, but the terrain was so interesting that I didn't care. Seeing the flood damage firsthand was amazing. At one point we shimmied down on to a narrow ledge above the river and crossed a small gap that I initially thought impassable. The trail very much had the feeling of improvisation and rebirth…and it was totally 'effin majestic. I ran really well in the last three and a half miles, finishing in just under six hours and only about ten minutes behind Mike.

In the end the race wasn't what I expected. It was harder and longer than Afton. It was amazing, beautiful, enchanting, menacing, connecting, and elusive. It was a surprise that taught me how to adapt, stay positive, respect my environment, and remember that the thing that I love is the adventure. Furthermore, it was a great experience to share with someone else. Mike was an awesome travel companion, a source of entertainment, and the only person I know willing to geek out about running for such a long time. Overall, it was a fantastic way to spend Friday and Saturday.
