---
title: 'LIKE or UNLIKE?'
date: "2009-02-12 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I noticed today that I can now click on things that I LIKE on facebook. Snippets. Idiocy. I can LIKE any of it. I was curious what it meant to LIKE something, so I clicked on a few of the recent news snippets that seemed the least objectionable. Text appeared below the informational bit that said, "You Like This". I can now look at a screen full of irrelevant updates and recognize those that I LIKE. Fortunately facebook also included an option to UNLIKE something. Say, for instance, that I LIKE that my friend B\*\*\* "is going to bed". Moments later I have a change of heart and decide that I do not like that B\*\*\* "is going to bed." I click the button and it never happened. I have no idea what any of it means, whether or not B\*\*\* is now privy to my ambivalence regarding his decision to go to bed, or whether the artificial intelligence that governs facebook has recorded my blatant lack of consistency. Perhaps it is also making note of those things that I never LIKE and subsequently notifying those people that I think nothing of the fact that they are "with pie", "so stinking busy", "wanting White Castle", friends with someone I don't know, playing with a virtual pet, or "glad her little boy woke her for work". An unnamed friend has a fear/love relationship with facebook. I often find him whispering neurotically, "I am afraid of facebook. I am in love with facebook. I am aroused by facebook. I am terrified of facebook." He will contribute a piece of insignificant personal information to the vast pangaea, giggle mercilessly, hiss "what if someone reads it...what if someone reads it...I'm dirty...I'm depraved...I'm in love." Moments later he will try to discern whether anyone has read it. After realizing that the internet remains largely anonymous, he will remove the piece of information and assume that it is gone. Then the despair sets in. The excitement, the voyeurism is deadened and the cycle begins again. No one cares, so facebook is trying to make them care. "Have an opinion," they mutter in electronic blips. LIKE things, UNLIKE them, satisfy this unnamed friend's notion that all things are contemplated and judged either in silence or platitude. Yeah, right. Google reader used to tell me what percentage of articles I read. It was possibly ten percent, and of those I finished perhaps ten percent. Focus, fuckbrain, there's streaming white lines everywhere and somehow I'm supposed to hone in on an insignificant voice vomiting forth its irrelevance. "Today..." and "yesterday..." It's not much different, except that the narrative is filled in objectionably with sleeping, eating, fucking, fighting, cowering, and groveling--this is only part of the truth.

Yesterday morning I arrived at the gym to find three post-it notes on the door. "Broken, classes canceled", and so on. I stood there in disbelief, chatting briefly with a man who was there for the Wednesday morning old people class. I love Wednesday mornings for two reasons: the old people class and the guy who makes a lot of noise lifting very small weights. The old people class starts around 9am and appears to be based on a low impact exercise video, with a room full of old people swaying oddly back and forth, gyrating and gesticulating in ways that could be confused with vigorous church worship. The guy who yells started getting personal training lessons perhaps a month ago. He appears to have a relatively average physique, but seems to struggle under even the most meager weights. For example, one day he was at the calf machine groaning with each repetition of thirty-five pounds. The calf machine is such that you are sitting and the weight is applied to your thighs. Essentially, you are lifting half of your body (at the most) in addition to the weight on the machine. Since I would guess his weight to be around 210 pounds, the thirty-five pounds on the bar represented only a small fraction of his torso, meaning that simply standing and raising himself on to his toes would be a more strenuous activity than the calf machine as he had it set up. Yet, his epic struggle ended after no more than eight repetitions. Could he not raise himself on to his toes on flat ground? INTERRUPT. CLICK UNLIKE.