---
title: "subdued genius: part I"
date: "2008-03-31 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Virginia Woolf writes: 

> And one gathers from this enormous modern literature of confession and self-analysis that to write a work of genius is almost always a feat of prodigious difficulty. Everything is against the likelihood that it will come from the writer's mind whole and entire. Generally material circumstances are against it. Dogs will bark; people will interrupt; money must be made; health will break down. Further, accentuating all these difficulties and making them harder to bear is the world's notorious indifference. It does not ask people to write poems and novels and histories; it does not need them. It does not care whether Flaubert finds the right word or whether Carlyle scrupulously verifies this or that fact. naturally, it will not pay for what it does not want. And so the writer, Keats, Flaubert, Carlyle, suffers, especially in the creative years of youth, every form of distraction and discouragement. A curse, a cry of agony, rises from those books of analysis and confession. "Mighty poets in their misery dead"--that is the burden of their song. If anything comes through in spite of all this, it is a miracle, and probably no book is born entire and uncrippled as it was conceived. (52) 

She goes on to talk about the further difficulty of being a woman saddled with genius. My immediate interest is in its more universal application. I was thinking about the suicide ratios that I mentioned in a previous post, and it struck me that I was not fascinated with a proximity to death, but rather with an acuity for life. The most jarring thing about the secret suicide attempts of strangers is the element of suffering, the realization that behind those stationary automatons exists conflict not unlike that in my own mind. Often I make the mistake of assuming that the people around me are oblivious and of a more consistent nature than I am. They see things and hold only one response, most frequently dulling their senses to the complexity of being a thing that can effectively make no change and no progress. The trifles of each day are simply that: trifles. In time the form on which I've based my identity will cease to exist and I will be either nothing, transcendent or tortured, depending on your opinion of choice. To grasp the capability of a stranger to be complex is both exhilarating and terrifying. Likewise, the genius stifled by circumstances not conducive to its transmission from vague floating inspiration to a more concrete medium is baffling. Mundane, procedural bullshit; the very geography of our environment; the noises of cohabitation--lord knows what keeps us all from expressing on the most beautiful and intimate terms. I think about this sometimes, though less precisely, when I've had a dream whose complexity seems well beyond my waking imagination. This only slightly disconnected thing--fully contained in my form--that is capable of producing what I could not conjure in a hundred waking hours. It is miraculous. And I will meet a stranger today, or see an old acquaintance, and wonder what genius lurks under their skin, subdued only by unfortunate circumstances.