---
title: 'assessment'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

propped against a wall in the middle room. lean forward. hands at my feet like a chimpanzee. life. somehow. in making sense. deliveries of sentience by dream-witted castoffs from oldself/deliberateanatomy/etc. made out of a mold. pressing forward. right/wrong lever action. I'm living in a dreamday. make-makebelieve. cold, hard, crooked wall pressing into my back. fingers flash on the keyboard while I collect a plan: cheap beer and feet turned out. movies in the background. turned off an hour ago. riding home in a rainstorm. check this, I was at the corner of tenth and hennepin waiting for the light to change. black man. big hair. big belly. drinking red liquid from a gatorade bottle turns to me and says, "you're gonna die." he walked a few more paces and added, "sunshine." it was raining. I couldn't decide if he was warning me. bad omen? sun and rain? the dialectic of the stars? pressing outwards. sucking inwards. covered in red. bleeding the topography of human-stirred souls. later I thought, oh fuck. listen to the radio. the songs are different but the interplay is the same. the monotony of drone and the napping aspirations of the sleepless. it's always come easy. even when I cannot sleep at night I can fall asleep during the day within minutes. this or that. tip over into consequence. regret a few morphologically unsound utterances. etc. ha ha. dip into the magnolia. dream-machine. toxic afterlife. bitter patter. overlapping into me. digesting bits. speak. open mouth and project. could I, walking across the street with only seconds left on the flashing man, turn to a stranger and tell him he was about to die? no. not even if I knew. I would turn perhaps, look at him with grief, and continue as if nothing was wrong. delinquency of emotion, and unwillingness to indulge momentarily in something that I want forever. pain sucks. fuck pain. (there are weights on my back porch and as of a couple of days ago premiumgrainbelt in the refrigerator...peace be with me)

