---
title: "six things: part I"
date: "2007-11-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

1. I've actually been learning something useful at work the past few days: asynchronous javascript and xml. It's part of the magic that allows client-side javascript to do something useful in interweb space. Google made it cool. The database setup at work is such that many things which would be optimally stored in a database have been hardcoded in javascript files. I did this because I was pressed for time last spring. Now that it is autumn and we see only a handful of customers each day I've started going back and doing things properly. It's useful knowledge and I feel smarter for it. 
2. FSA shallow drop handlebars are the best thing to happen to bicycles in the past ten years. I bought a pair last year, put them on a bike that was already a bit too small and absolutely hated them. I tried them again on a properly sized bike and quickly fell in love. They've inspired to have more fun, but somewhat surprisingly they've also made me faster. My old deep drops were pretty much useless. Either my thighs were bouncing off my chest or my brake hoods were high enough to make Grant Peterson twist his head in contemplation. 
3. A kid on a ten speed chugged by me--bike creaking, torso rocking back and forth like a worn out rocking chair--while I was riding near the u of m campus. We stopped together at the next stoplight and I said, "Good morning." He looked at me contemptuously and said nothing. I've been getting that a lot lately. I'm beginning to think that cyclists are hyper-competitive-jerkoffs. 4.) My favorite time of year is ending and my least favorite is beginning. Compounding this is the matter of it always smelling like horseshit outside of the apartment. I like the isolation of my current living location, but it would be nice to walk outside and smell something other than shit. It's like a slap in the face being assaulted by both the newly inspired cold weather and the pungent odor of horseshit, which seems to travel more easily through the cold air. 
5. One of the more lavish time-wasting-activities that I've been partaking in lately has been Mario Party for the Nintendo WII. It's a somewhat embarrassing confession as I try to project my internet self as a disciplined intellectual with slight leanings toward luddism (as much as one can lean toward such a thing via a medium that opposes it anyway). In any case, there is a minigame within the larger game that requires the player to quickly and accurately flip a chimp to one side or the other of a tree as coconuts drop from the top of the screen. My performance at this game has been so dismal that I've actually questioned whether I suffer from some undiagnosed neurological disorder. It has been impossible for me to make the connection between my brain and hand in such a way as to enact a response prior to being pelted in the face with a coconut. Like most things with the motion sensitive WII, the controls are so simple that the failure could not be attributed to a mere lack of skill at the videogame. About a week ago I not only enjoyed an unexpected victory, but was able to reach the top without making a single error. I thought perhaps I had overcome whatever deficiency was responsible for my inadequacy. However, I have played the game twice since then and each time performed just as dismally as ever. I worry that my mind is diseased. 
6. I made my third attempt at reading The Golden Bowl by Henry James. After a few days I resolved to never finish it. There are just too many fucking commas.