---
title: 'oscillation and illness'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

It is october. I am sick. There has been no sunlight. Days have been lost in one seamless, unending transition from gray to black. The passing of time has been distinguishable only in the loss of detail. I am slowly going blind while the day is quickly passing. My mind is transfixed, held in its dim nothingness by cold medication and the disorientation caused by too much sleep. Elsewhere tonight the city trembles in anticipation of its heroes and villains battling for temporary glory, quickly and quietly disregarding the historical uncertainty of heroism. I wake up one day and I am that hero. I wake up the next and I am this villain. It is not a disorder to be diagnosed and shared with only a few. It is the human condition. It is joy (suffering). It is the oscillation of the mind from content to striving. Moments ago I tried to dump honey from a jar into my tea. It was a marginal success. My hair stands on end. The chair that I am sitting in has developed a squeak. Sunday I was supposed to run Twin Cities marathon (sponsored by Medtronic!!). I did not run. I was already sick, so that would have been a wonderful excuse, but the truth is that I wasn't ready. My longest training run was just over ten miles. Aside from paying the exorbitant entry fee, it was not a disappointment. That morning I was with my friends in the woods, waking up after a night of sleeping in the trees and staring at a beautiful fire for hours. I convince myself that I was not merely passionless. It was a matter of circumstances, different motivations. I have been spending a lot of my free time camping. It clears my mind to ride even far enough from the city that I can see a few stars. Only a few. This tea is delicious.

A few days ago the computer broke. File system directory count does not match the number of directories. File count does not match the number of files. Either a failure of the journaled file system or a fluke of broken hardware. I haven't decided. A genius hasn't decided for me. Either way, it is disappointing. I was getting comfortable. I cannot stop sneezing and there is honey on my fingers. We inevitably end up in different places, doing different things. It is like we have somehow desynchronized the passing of time. You are ahead. Then I am ahead. In either case we watch in a collection of nervous glances to see how the other compares. In this case, there is no we. It is a moot comparison, like comparing the different sensory perceptions of a sunset. The warmth against your skin. The disappearing supernova of colors. The sound of the wind as it turns to breeze and then to nothing. When I wake up in the morning everything sounds loud.

Yesterday we went to the zoo. I was a quiet tourist in my misplaced sneakers and corduroy pants, finally seeing other people with compassion.