---
title: 'felonious days off'
date: "2006-01-05 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

it’s 3:20pm on my day off. i’m not accustomed to days off. it’s either been school, work, or preparing my things to move--constant deadlines and catastrophic events looming on the horizon. don’t mistake me--there are a million things that i should be doing, but they all like the threatening storm clouds that have thrust me into action in the past months. i’m now victim of a decided paralysis that is the product of constant threats--simply, i have started to rely on events imposing upon me with such ominous intentions that to do something only because it should be done has become another form of inaction. similar to children under authoritarian leadership i have been manipulated and prodded for such a length of time that my independence has become one of rejecting any action whatsoever. it is not that i do not want to pay my bills or clean the garage or move those last few things from my car or charge my cellphone, but there’s no compelling reason to act. action has allied itself with disaster’s authority and without the immediate and compelling threat of the latter i will opt for that rare sense of freedom that is nothingness; curiously, that same sense of freedom fosters boredom and i find that even now when i’m doing nothing i wish that i was doing something. i’ll fall asleep simply because i don’t want to do and don’t want to do something. my head spins and i collapse on the couch into a sleepy ball of silliness and cosmic ineptitude. i’m not all that different from a couch dweller, imparting hopelessness where there is absolutely no call for it. i woke up this morning and made coffee, ate cereal, and went through a brief yoga routine. i bought a yoga book a couple years ago when i wanted to become more philo-natural-flexi- otic and haven’t really used it other than the occasional indulgence in something "odd". after that i spent twenty minutes on the trainer. my new year’s resolution is to get back into the peak condition that i was in toward the middle of last summer and two summers prior to that. nate woke up around noon and we went to the garage to lift weights. i’ve cleaned up the garage quite a bit since moving in here and it’s starting to feel more comfortable. lifting weights is one of those weird activities that requires an absolute comfort with one’s environment. i tend to lose focus if i’m in an unfamiliar or unfriendly environment--i need my surrounding to melt away. it’s starting to feel more like that. i’m not sure where my mail is going. it’s weird to not have a mailbox to check where i receive absolutely nothing that i am interested in. i can’t even remember most of my addresses. fluidity. devolution.