---
title: "return to duluth: part II"
date: "2008-06-21 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I finished in 4:31:04--three minutes under the average finishing time. Not bad, considering the circumstances. I intend to add to this post periodically over the next few days as I reflect on the experience. 

It erupts, but slowly, splattering the inside walls of my brain with some semblance of an idea, some impervious, ill rooted visualization of the ends before the means (or the ends without the means). and I watch myself spread this diseased notion of invincibility, this conviction that I just have to want it, to will it, and before I know what has happened I have decided. I have decided without any rational explanation, without any justification to the hands and feet that might have to crawl, decimated, to the finish line. "I've decided that I'm going to run." tonally, it is flawless. it is purely human, evocative only once conceived circumstantially. moments tick by in nervousness. nervousness not because I am afraid as I should be, but because the decision was so easy and natural. lurking like madness is an idea of sanity, safety, and regularity that should frame my frightened response, my ceaseless vacillation between triumph and tragedy. but there is nothing of the sort. instead, excitement and certainty, an earnest and underlying desire to face the inconceivable before whom I could no longer shrink in fear. hah! this is nothing. but it is everything and I'm suddenly more alive than I've been, riding a wave of emotion. is it pride? or disgust? love? "I am alone, and I will fight." all of these souls, here for a reason, here because something about this suffering fulfills them. the swarm moves forward, single minded. thousands of individuals who have found reason to momentarily escape the confinement of definition. and I proposed from the first that I be one of those, not face down or up, merely eyes glazed and sometimes nearly filled with tears. (you are an angel girl with the twizzlers. you are an angel. I cannot remember your face. not at all.) and this is why I cannot find any language for it. because it is primal. because it is about love and fear and death and kinship, the sky, the earth, the uncompromising vastness of the spaces where we exist simultaneously but without ever catching a glimpse of another person's suffering. (I thought of - just once while I was running, and without the accompaniment of her complimentary ghosts) how I've misjudged you. and I want us to watch each other in these moments without prejudice, making no commitment to the silly habits of those without anything better to do. mile three. I think to myself, "it will get better. it will feel better." I tighten the laces and grit my teeth. twenty minutes later the physical pain is gone and I am on cruise control. I read the names that girls have written on their arms and in my mind I cheer for them. I am too shy to say anything, but their presence enlivens a certain level of palatable and profitable idealism. for the first time I am totally and completely in love with human beings. time passes. clouds shift. I run along the left side of the road, sucking in the shade and periodically tipping my wrist back towards my face. hah. I feel fucking great. I really do. I start ticking off accomplishments--rest stops, hours running, percentages, signs on the side of the road, groups in front of me. I learned in milwaukee that marathons are actually quite short. they're not a lifetime of loneliness or the consequences of a single poor decision. they are measured in these small concepts that in sum equal something quite unfathomable. mile fifteen. a beautiful girl smiles and bounds off into the woods to piss. my god, how little shame her face shows! life--no matter how temporary--without prejudice! I am in love! she's back. she's faster than me. I am content. mile twenty-something. this bizarre bond, self immolation of self contentment and strawberries. bananas. helplessness. there's only one way to find out where the extents of human capacity become blurred with those of human caprice. ha haha hah.