---
title: 'onehundred and elevenmiles.'
date: "2011-06-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Cycling
---

Yesterday morning I decided to wake up early and join a road ride leaving from the bike shop. I had to finagle a bit to arrange for my return sometime between 1 and 2pm, but a-train was generous enough to cover for me. By the time that we met at the shop, there was a storm lurking on the western edge of the radar. Our plan was to ride to Marine on Saint Croix and wait for it to pass before heading into Wisconsin. That part of the plan went swimmingly. I mostly sat in for the first thirty miles (actually forty, as I'd ridden to the shop). My breakfast was underwhelming and I was getting hungry. The stop came at just the right moment. I ate quiche, a scone, and grabbed a cookie to stick in my jersey pocket for later. The storm was catching up to us, so we decided to detour south. It didn't matter. Within ten minutes of leaving the Bikery it started raining. The rain was warm and we were on pavement, so I accepted my fate much more readily than I had at Almanzo. It continued raining as we went through Stillwater and into Wisconsin. After a nice stretch in Wisconsin (they've improved their roads dramatically since I've been there), we passed back into Minnesota via Hudson and headed towards Afton. I helped navigate us through the nicer parts of Afton, including the lovely River Road climb, and we headed back towards Saint Paul via Military Road. It wasn't until the Afton section that I started feeling really good. I finished the ride stronger than I'd started it, and after the commute home logged 111 miles for the day. My cycling fitness has been rather poor this year, so it was uplifting to hammer out an easy century on a road bike. There were five in our group and three were named Tim. Hah ha. Weird. The others were Steve and Becky. I bet they felt out of place. Anyway, they were all really nice people and I had an excellent time.