---
title: "Wai'anae Ka'ala: part one"
date: "2009-02-28 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

Saturday. Raining. Waiting for Matt to wake up and pecking away at my first real keyboard in a week. My thoughts have been collecting in a journal comprised of messy handwriting and fluctuating psychology. Day three--"I'm happy to be alive. Time in Hawaii suffers incongruity. It must be accepted as it presents itself, no matter how disproportionate or insensible. On our third day we planned a hike to the highest point on O'ahu. Wai'anae Ka'ala. 3500 feet of elevation gained in under four miles. Eight miles round trip. We got a ride along the western coast, littered with its hobo encampments and junked-out cars. Mind boggling. I wondered quietly how they all ended up here. Spirit journeys? Maybe. After struggling to understand the hiking book's directions, which were written in 'treasure map', we found the trailhead sandwiched amidst some shacks. The mountain loomed before us, an ever shifting mass of greens and grays. Menacing at times. Inviting at others. Off we went up a concrete service road. As we climbed higher civilization became more and more beautiful below us. The wretched details of human life were blotted out and what remained was picturesque. I stopped for a photo. Something moved in the brush to our right. The grass and weeds at the top of the embankment were dense and tall, so it was not until the animal showed itself that I could make out the very well formed head and horns of a bull no more than twenty or thirty feet away from us. I looked at Matt. I needed some confirmation that my impression of reality was accurate. It seemed like such a wild notion: a bull forging its way through the brush. Even at the base of the climb the grade must have easily been six percent, if not more. How was this thing possibly navigating its way across such terrain? Where did it come from?" On the ride home from the airport after our trip to the volcano Maria offered some insight from a coworker at the university--Hawaii has wild cows. I continued, "I looked at Matt. His face was both unforgettable and indescribable. It looked as though it was going to split off in a million different directions at once, a perfect supernova of human body and mind. It was confirmed. I turned just as the animal leapt from the embankment. I ran as fast as my legs would carry me, planning maneuvers that I might try if I heard the massive animal getting nearer. As it dawned on me that we were both still alive, we slowed down, then sped up again. Are we still in danger? I couldn't comprehend the situation so I couldn't comprehend if we were out of danger. We discussed our plans for escape: after running through a series of options Matt had settled on a telephone pole and his pocketknife. I was going to try to use my somewhat limited knowledge of PBR to leap from the animal's path at just the right moment. Fortunately neither of us had to test our poorly conceived plans. An ominous start. For the next twenty minutes we surged forward as though we were still being chased. In fact, we might have carried ourselves through the rest of the hike as though we were being chased. Finally we reached the start of the actual trail. It grew majestic very quickly. No traffic. Roots and rocks tangled on a singular ridge. We passed alongside a dried riverbed. The terrain changed abruptly ever couple hundred feet of elevation that we gained, growing steeper and more challenging. I was sweating and my heavy breathing reverberated in the forest just like every other animal noise. As we rounded a corner the trail grew dark under the cover of arched bushes, allowing only a single peculiar spot of light on the forest floor. Dramatic visuals. As we got closer to the top we had to use ropes and cables to continue our ascent. Suddenly we found ourselves out of the forest, on an exposed spine of the ridge. The walking area was only a couple feet wide and on either side it dropped precipitously. Several hundred feet on the right, a bit less on the left. I canted my body leftwards, as though it would have mattered. There were very few handholds and I kept talking to myself. 'Keep cool.' Four and faith. One step. Two. Hop. Move deliberately, intentionally. Any mistake would have meant serious trouble. We were across the ridge. A series of boulders loomed large in front of us. Ropes connecting each ledge. 'Know your ropes'. The best I could do was a tug. Taunt or invitation. After looking helplessly at Matt for a few moments I pulled myself up the first series. The dense air gave way to mist, and then rain. The precipice became an infinite abyss of gray unknown. The situation was not life threatening going up, but the thought of lowering ourselves down slippery, wet rocks in a worsening storm on unknown ropes took its toll on my spirits. Only a few precious hundred feet from the summit. I looked at Matt for an expression that would say, 'yeah, I want to turn back too.' We turned back. There was a distinct sense of disappointment, mixed with an insatiable need to get back to the forest as quickly as possible. I found out quickly that my trail running shoes were overmatched going down the wet, steep terrain." 

#### To be continued...