---
title: 'Twin Cities Marathon'
date: '2013-10-07 09:19:54'
template: post.html
---

I set a new marathon PR at Twin Cities of 3:27:44, besting my previous mark of 3:59:14 by a whopping thirty-one and a half minutes. After the Superior 50, I went into this event not only aiming for a PR, but also with a conceptual shift in my thinking from road marathon = endurance event, to road marathon = sprint. I knew that all of this was dangerous, because marathons are still long and things can go wrong. 

I biked downtown, parked near the metrodome and began wading my way through the sea of people. I haven't run a *big* marathon since Grandma's in 2008, with both Minneapolis and Hilo being only a few hundred people. I wandered around, trying to figure out where to go next. After chatting briefly with Jason and Milton, I continued mindlessly bumping into things and people in search of the bag drop area. Eventually, I found it, shed a couple layers, and lingered in my corral, trying to remain near the 3:30 pace group.

Somehow, by the time the race had started, I ended up near the 3:35 pace group and had to pick my way forward. It wasn't exactly the plan, but I didn't want to be fighting a deficit all day. My original idea was simple--run 8:00s until the midpoint and then possibly speed up--but I dismissed that quickly as the thrill of passing people had its influence and I started clicking off 7:30s. 

The crowds lining the streets were amazing. There was seldom a time when you weren't blanketed by a mass of cheering, supportive individuals. The broad appeal of the marathon is staggering. Sure, the gratuitous and wasteful nature is a bit irksome, but you have to appreciate the celebration of human effort and accomplishment. After I weaseled my way through the 3:25 pace group, I found some open space to run and cruised around the lakes, following Bunda's advice of crushing it after the first hill.

I was running with a handheld that had 20 ounces of fluid, and around 500 calories worth of Clif Shot Blocks. I intended to skip most of the water stops, as I've grown accustomed to aid stations being between 5 and 10 miles apart. I find that I can get into a better rhythm when I run that way, and the time saved not stopping would easily offset the chore of carrying an extra pound of food and water. The only part of this plan that I screwed up was that I didn't eat any of the shot blocks and drank infrequently. Oops.

I was very strong through mile 17, with all of my miles being below 7:43. At this point Justin hopped on the course and ran with me for a stretch. It was nice to have some company, although I was just starting to realize my nutritional blunder and probably wasn't the most engaging companion. As I crossed the Franklin bridge, I tried to correct my mistake, but it was too late. I couldn't shovel in and digest enough Shot Blocks before hitting the "hilly" section of the route. It wasn't ugly, but I knew that I had to move from *high gear* to *medium*. I calculated my buffer for a sub-3:30 finish, and was sure to keep my pace well below it. My parents were there to cheer me on at Summit, and by the time I reached Snelling, I was in better spirits. I'd saved enough of my banked time that I knew I could continue running *medium* to the finish.

Around mile 25 I saw Dave and family out cheering on the runners. It was great to see so many familiar faces. I cruised into the finish line just as it started raining. All things considered, I'm very happy with the day. I had fun, set a new PR, and walked away injury-free. Most of my friends who ran also had great days. So congrats to everyone!