---
title: "sandwich fixings: part I"
date: "2007-05-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

the front wheel of the shopping cart wobbles, clawing its way limply across the marbled surface. the noise echoes through g-'s illuminated block lettered fruits and vegetables. vertigo. separated by different times of the night, hands having touched the same plastic apples and maneuvered around the same abandoned mop bucket. strangers eying up the daringly slashed prices on cantaloupes and shuffling bare, dirty feet like outcasts from a pillaging zombie horde. thumb forefinger, drifting across its sexy plastic veneer and dropped back into the indifferent throng of bright plastic ticking time bomb--­expiry unknown but never unexpected. through the rows--see this, think of that. product packaging and there's cleverity enough to admire the same amplitude of this human masquerading zombie swarm. you and me baby, shopping the same candied sexed out aisles of kitty litter and cream cheese. inescapable feeling of being shafted by those three paltry brown tags, tightly fitted with oblong, rectangular, irregular shapes. net weight != gross weight. laid down on the floor of the pharmacy like a drugged out farm animal, daringly flaunting the unacceptable bits of a blurred delineation between what happens and what does not. the truth was: I was afraid and we didn't actually hate each other. read a warning on a bottle of children's tylenol: "suicide is not something that occurs in one moment. rather, it extends itself out over the course of time in a series of decisions that desperately try to avoid its outcome, but inevitably draw it ever nearer in the often unrecognizable form of giving up on giving up." I've got this old friend, see? what? no suspension of disbelief? can't reconcile that sensation that I'm not the same face as last time? I avoid the words that I used to use and the new ones are all jumbled and nonsensical? met with consistency--total freak out. going to have a measure by which DISINTEGRATION might be categorically assessed. this is the passing high water point. the gold standard. the dried, salt stained iron surfaces met with labored automation and fucked up not crying. I load my cart to try to keep the screeching front wheel from contacting the floor. there's another red eyed gaggle of zombies reloading the spring loaded shelves. all primed. ready to eject a new sensation. new coloring. block lettering. old friends. dime a dozen. fuck. an inconsolable adoration for the middle of the night when the zombies dig back underground. electrical outlets. they're both false emotions. stick my fingers in one or the other. woah. it's a real sensation--block lettered, candied, sexed out on its own newness and recognizability. strange moment of loathing. sell me some more. sell me some more. (sell me more of your bullshit please) it's a close match, between the color of our eyes. I heard this stupid song on the radio the other day. it was strange because it had fallen from the rotation a long time ago and been relegated to the realm of m&amp;m commercials. trying to dodge each other. skip two aisles and end up forgetting the fucking bread. sandwich fixings without any fucking bread. just lay there. soak it up. extraordinarily palatable, no?