---
title: "it's in your head"
date: "2009-10-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

afternoon. engaged in the familiar act of waiting on my laundry. take a quick inventory of caustic chemicals. do I like them? I suppose I do, especially the antiseptic sheen left in their wake. I am suddenly split into consciousness and conscientious semblance of consciousness. in the case of the latter I find that I am a floating point of energy bound to observe without prejudice the things that take place, choosing only the angle from which I observe. I often watch myself from behind. the back of my head, the muscles in my back as they move and lift things. I am in the shower. gentle, impervious dripping, incessant thermo- fluctuation. my body is warm when it sleeps. in the case of the former I am like I imagine other things are: self-contained, slightly oppressive in its arrogant preconception of will and worthiness. "I deserve..." I feel slightly ill and dehydrated. last night was not as planned. camping went wrong. I have been failing at things lately. tipsy will. detached sentience. suddenly I am outside of myself, completely indifferent whether I eat, live, die, re/pre/de-conceive. much of this week was spent talking myself out of idleness and illness. the cat. it has strange eyes. harvest moon. I try to get its attention. childishly blow at its face. fur matted, it turns to me. hah! the cat disappeared just as I appeared and reappeared just as I reappeared. am I cat dreaming that I am chuang tzu dreaming that I am t- l- (disappearing resemblance)? I studied the cat as it moved, bending like a snake to touch its body against tangible objects. the table. the door. my leg. the couch. not playful. decidedly bent on unawareness. last night when we were riding a rabbit darted from the trail in front of me. decidedly bent on unawareness. last night when we were riding a rabbit darted from the trail in front of me. it sat in the ditch as I passed, confident in its camouflage (I am inclined to move the 'u' in this word). 'I can see you rabbit. just like the cat.' does anyone else see the cat? have I invented it? I am hesitant to touch things that will present a new tactile sensation, so I cover my body in sweat. thin film, obscuring, giving a thick film to the new thing and making it something that could have already existed in my mind. therefore, I have not touched the cat. it is simpler if I have invented this. of course, I am mad then, utterly mad. when we were riding a rabbit darted in front of me on the trail. it looked suspiciously like the cat that I saw later in the evening. I walked through the propped exit door at the gas station. 'I am entering.' not a word. could it be that I have invented this gas station? and these friends? we seem not to know what to talk about at exactly the same time. the same limitations. similar general accouterments. you can tell that I am serious. I have had a strange pain in my upper abdominal region. a disorder that is becoming chronic, and despite its physical manifestations, I can hardly convince myself of it. 'if only I rethink the circumstances I can find that it is something different from what I imagine it to be. (I think inelegantly)' this rudimentary discomfort: if I can not understand this thing, then how will I understand the duplicitous severing of consciousness and perceived consciousness? it began in writing. I would think something that seemed foreign to me. a combination of things that I would not have deemed my mind capable of comprehending, let alone conceiving. she's lost control. so I watch the cat move suspiciously, affect the door as the night changes to morning. the sun is up. I am curled in a balled mass of sweat and mingled bodies. I am alone. the cat is gone. the space in which I have transplanted my conscientious conception of identity has failed to support the visage of other life forms. am I ill? I am certainly ill, but is it something worse? "it is in your head." 'probably.' allergies. right. but everything? on my way home I tried to settle the matter definitively by moving myself forward disproportionately to time, first faster and then slower. the problem is that as my being shifted, so did my consciousness, and I was left just as perplexed as when it started.