---
title: 'sunday morning'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

one day I plan to produce works of considerable genius. my eyes will dart back and forth, and from the seemingly mundane backdrop of everydaylife I will intricately observe things that most often escape detection. oh, and I will do this with language both florid and accessible. for the moment, however, I will pay my bills on time, eat cereal and sip my coffee. morning. it is nice today. the air is cool and crisp and I want to go outside and play. my hair is too long and my beard is a tangled mess. I didn't shower last night. I'm sitting at my new desk. I think I am done acquiring new things for the house. it feels right now. the walls have things on them. I didn't do that at my last apartment. I never had the time. the oppressive white settled in, devouring the handsome, sick thoughts that progressively degenerated my condition. I grilled chicken last night. I grill at least three times per week. things that aren't grilled don't interest me anymore. the dim red glow of the charcoal as it bleeds into the night sky. there is a groundhog that lives in the garage behind our house. sometimes he meanders his way into the yard, completely unafraid of the human beings lackadaisically moving around the yard. I chase him. stomp my feet. try to make him feel unwelcome. my yard, asshole. but it's really not. I shouldn't be so mean to him. I regret it later. he's just trying to survive amidst unnatural structures. it's like if I walked into a walmart and decided to make it my home, hiding in the boxes of diapers and yard chemicals that are stacked to the sky. two nights ago we watched the watchmen. ate brats, mac and cheese, drank beer, and watched comic book movies. yes, I agree, delightful. for the moment I will play with words. composition. place them next to each other, step back and amuse myself with the idea that they are not simply placed alone amongst indecipherable gibberish. talking at the sky (recycling is every other thursday). so. yeah. here I am. sitting behind this giant screen trying to figure out what it is that I'm trying to think. because I'm very deliberately trying to think something. discover a sentiment. or stare open mouthed at stars that have regressed into the melting wax of night.

I am done moving now. the things that I didn't want have started to seep into the walls. the things that I do want are almost where I want them. progress. rearrange until there is progress. I go to work at a little bit different time in the morning. yesterday I dropped off a movie at blockbuster then took franklin to work. it was such an enjoyable ride. the car drivers and hoodlums were still sleeping. the wind was at my back. it was cool. on the way home I took franklin, perhaps trying to reawaken the sentiments that carried me to work. the bliss of morning and coffee moving inward from the tips of my fingers and through my limbs. on the way home it was not at all the same. but I did pick up beer. beth also picked up beer. fifty-four beers. damn. at least we won't have to get beer for a while. it's time to start/stop my day.