---
title: 'a particular piece of information'
date: "2011-04-09 12:00:00"
template: post.html
tags: 
categories: Life
---

I discover a particular piece of information, and already I do not want it there. I fall asleep too early. *this will be easier to process when I wake up...or or or...maybe I'll sleep, sleep, sleep...*but neither is true. so I awake, the bittersweet reprieve draining from the high to the low points of my face, creating topography that tells a story. I drink a single glass of wine while reacquainting myself with the act of translating thoughts and emotions into words that blossom indifferently from that relentless blinking. if I think quickly enough, the blinking stops. (the particular piece of information dominates my imaginative vision from the unseen periphery...*I will not look at you right now, ugly thing*) the dinner that I neglected to make when I got home is now simmering. I smell it and I am hungry in a way that I have not been in weeks. a few days before returning from hawaii I woke up with that familiar sensation of: *I am sick*. in honolulu we stopped at a bookstore. near the back of the store there was a blanket fort propped next to the LITERATURE section. as I shuffled mindlessly through the disjointed mess of books a disgruntled little head appeared, lips turned down in the careless expression of a thoughtful pouter. *Hello*. he said nothing and pulled the shroud back over his space in the fashion of a superhero deftly/dramatically managing his cape. this is life. I returned to the stacks. I needed something to read on the nine hour flight to georgia, but also something that I might continue once back in minnesota. over the past year, I have sadly fallen out of the habit of reading. absence of literature makes my mind dull and unimaginative. like endurance running or cycling, the body has a certain retention and ability to rejuvenate itself, but nothing except active consideration can spare the degenerative withering of this hard earned faculty of thinking. THE FOUNTAINHEAD. it was cheap, had a lovely postcard for OBJECTIVISM, and accompanied the vague recollection of a noteworthy recommendation. (the top of my desk is warped, so I place a small plastic owl under the corner of the keyboard...now I can hear the piece of information like the sloshing of an overfull belly) so now, awake between this sleep and that sleep, I will drink this glass of wine, I will read that book and eat that dinner. the particular piece of information will swell and fill the space of everything and I will have no option but to look at it and decide what it means.