---
title: 'The Almanzo 86'
date: "2011-05-15 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Cycling
tags: ['Almanzo', 'Gravel Grinders']
---

Well, that was probably the hardest day I've ever had on a bike...*and I didn't finish* the 162 course.  
  
The day started early. We woke up at 3:15am, met up with Alex Nelson and were on our way by 4am. I had been checking the forecast all week and it just keep getting worse. Originally there was only a slight chance of rain and a prediction of temperatures in the mid-fifties. By 4am on Saturday morning the forecast had changed to this: 100% chance of rain and a high of 47F with strong winds out of the north. Those are all of the worst things. I think I would have been better prepared to ride 162 miles in the middle of January. Nonetheless, we moved forward with *the plan*.  
  
We arrived at the high school with just enough time to pick up our packets and get everything attached to our bikes. It had rained lightly on the drive, but had slowed to a drizzle in the parking lot. I was quivering from the cold but managed to get to the starting line feeling like I hadn't made any terrible mistakes (other than, perhaps, showing up for the ride at all). I'm not sure how many started the 162. It seemed like a small field. I lined up near the back and prepared for a long day.  
  
The start was *slow*. Already the roads were soft and speeds were around 15mph. I laughed a little bit thinking that last year in the same section I was cruising at 25mph+ in a large and feisty group. This year, for this distance and with these road conditions the demeanor was much more subdued. Alex and I had agreed to try to stay together. I followed him through the small groups that were forming, watching as my bike and body quickly became caked with mud. "Can you see anything?" I asked. I couldn't hear his answer.  
  
In hindsight, the first two hours really weren't that bad. I warmed up. I was moderately comfortable and dry. I was wearing a wool baselayer, a jersey, a rain jacket I borrowed from Michelle that didn't fit at all and Craft Storm bib tights. The rain was light and intermittent. Life wasn't so bad. As we approached Preston I told Alex that I was going to stop to get something to eat and refill my water. As we were sitting outside of the grocery store in Preston Chris Skogen rolled up to see how things were going. Another rider asked how to modify the 162 mile cue cards to turn them into the 100 route. It had just started to rain much harder. My ears perked up. I made note of the instructions and told Alex that I was thinking of doing the same. We were at mile forty. I had another ten miles to decide.  
  
As we left Preston I knew that it was not going to stop raining for hours. The forecast called for intermittent rain showers in the morning, turning into a steady and persistent rain in the afternoon. The miles ticked off. We reached the decisive turn. I saw a couple of riders go the direction of the 100 and told Alex that I intended to follow them. He responded, "I think I'm going to Howard Roark this thing." I gave him my headlight and hustled to catch up to the two riders that I'd seen heading the other direction. I rode with these guys for a while, partially because it made me feel slightly less miserable and partially because I wanted to be sure that with my diminishing brain capacities I wouldn't get lost. We stopped around sixty miles for a breather. I checked for phone service. Nothing. It was now raining quite hard, my hands were completely numb and I was shivering. It was a bad situation. I would have called Michelle for a ride if I'd had service.  
  
We reached the State Park checkpoint at mile sixty-seven and chatted with the volunteers for a bit. I stood under a tent and listened to the rain pummel its roof. My rain jacket was completely saturated. Whatever waterproofing technology it had had stopped working (I didn't borrow her much nicer event jacket because it was even smaller). I removed my gloves to check for phone service again. My hands were a deep purplish, blue and almost completely numb. I was freaking out a little bit until I realized that the discoloration was from the dye in the leather and not because my hands were completely frozen. I stopped freaking out and continued checking for phone service. *Nothing*. I asked to borrow one of my riding companion's phones. Nothing. I conceded that I would probably have to ride back to Spring Valley. Chris had offered a shortcut back to town. This seemed like an acceptable compromise. I didn't know exactly how many miles it would cut, but I didn't have any options that would get me out of the rain sooner.  
  
I split off from the other two guys and turned north into the wind. It was fierce and the roads were peanut butter. I could barely pedal. I wanted so much to be done riding my bike. I stopped a couple of times to eat food and drink. My frozen hands could no longer function well enough to eat while riding. I couldn't stop for long or I would start shaking uncontrollably. After more than six hours in the rain and facing a brutal north wind with fully saturated clothing, I was struggling to fend off the early stages of hypothermia.  
  
Eventually I made it back to a highway that would take me the final few miles into town. To my surprise there were another couple riders there. They had turned back at Preston from the 100 mile version of the event. Almost every car going in the direction of Spring Valley was loaded with bikes. People were abandoning *en masse*. I almost cried when I reached the Spring Valley city limits sign.  
  
When I got back to the high school I walked around and traded stories and expressions of sympathy. I didn't finish the course, but I survived. I rode 86 miles in about seven hours...the same amount of time that it took me to finish the 100 mile event last year. It was brutal. I called Alex Nelson. He had decided to abandon shortly after me and was in Preston. His day ended up being an elaborate out and back while mine was a shortened loop. I'm sure some people stuck it out and finished. Those people have my utmost admiration, but so does anyone who attempted the event this year. Right now, I'm just glad it's over and that I'm warm and dry.