---
title: 'days one through six.'
date: "2010-11-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
tags: 'meeting michelle'
categories: Life
---

Factual account, free from *art* and *vagary*. I just want to remember. you should probably only read this if we're friends. it's personal, and I'm shy with *realwords*.  
  
**Day one.** We'd exchanged messages. I was selling you a pair of Nokian tires that I didn't like because they didn't have enough traction on ice with their limited stud pattern. I chose to sell them to you instead of other, perhaps more entitled, people because you were interesting to me. I liked our messages. The first was the generic request for information that initiates a business transaction. The rest were...different. Monday. Midday. Dave was not working so I had to stay until 8pm. We would meet at 9:30pm. I had it in my mind that we would have a beer. I told Alex, *I am going to have a beer with her...she doesn't know it yet...but it's going to happen.* He told me that this was a terrible idea, that it was unfair to trick someone into having a beer with me when all that [you] wanted was a pair of studded tires. I told him that he was wrong, that it would work perfectly. *Why?* I babbled about our messages and how connected I felt to you. It nonetheless instilled a sense of doubt. Would it be weird? Would you say *no*? I went home. It was around 9pm. *Alex is right. I'll just grab the tires and try not to make a fool out of myself.* You sent me a text message telling me that you were leaving. 9:03pm. That was our first text message and the first time that we'd communicated outside of the internet. It was getting increasingly REAL. I waited anxiously until finally the door buzzer did its thing. I panicked. I have never used the intercom system at my apartment so I simply pressed DOOR assuming that you'd end up somewhere between the street and my apartment. I opened the security door. You said my name. I cannot recall exactly the tone that it carried. It might have been a question. TIM? Or a demand. I hurried down the first flight of stairs and said something awkward. HI. You explained that you had not locked your bike and were therefore in the awkward position of not wanting to abandon either the open door or your bicycle. I smiled, averting my eyes when I found myself liking your face more than I should like a stranger's face. In the dim light I could not tell exactly what you were riding, but I noticed the following things: your saddle and handlebar relationship was beautiful, you had a racktop bag, a Brooks, and sensible lights. I did not want the conversation to end so I didn't immediately hand you the tires. I asked you about your bike and if it was the one that would receive the tires. You talked about your others, confessing a deep affection for lugged steel. My heart raced and I balanced my body awkwardly against the wall as you balanced yours similarly against the partially open door. I considered how I looked. I was wearing a regular pair of pants and a t-shirt that I bought at a thrift store in the late 90s. You asked me about my bikes. When I explained that I had a cyclocross bike you you asked me if I raced. I paused. *No, *I said slowly while contemplating whether I should explain that I enjoy long distance, unsanctioned cyclotouring that is TIME RELEVANT. Instead I simply inverted the question and pointed it at you. You said that you did not, but that you had run a marathon a couple years ago. I ran a marathon a couple years ago! The conversation was flowing freely and I took these *coincidences* as an indication that I should do something, that this was the moment to act. It was an unusually bold move for me. In my life I have rarely done anything like it, so I was sure that I would do it terribly. *Do you want to go somewhere so you don't have to stand against that door?* It was something like that. It wasn't as bad as it could have been. I put you in a position where you would go somewhere with me, profess a *deeplove* of standing against an open door, or leave (at which point I could easily run upstairs and bury my head in a pillow, sobbing). Your face slowly turned pinkishred. You didn't say anything for a moment. I was surprisingly at ease because my part was done. I had done everything I could to seize what seemed potentially extraordinary and beautiful. You finally asked, *where would we go?* Hmm. *We could either go upstairs or somewhere else.* You (reasonably) opted for the latter. The tension eased and we settled on walking rather than biking. I took your tires upstairs, promising to return them when you left. Upstairs, I paused, looking at my face in the mirror and explaining *this is real*. We began walking. You checked your phone messages. We moved quickly, taking a strange route. The conversation continued. I am unsure now of its content. I was too distracted by the intoxication of new senses. I observed the way that you moved in open space, the calm manner in which you directed your curiosity. When we reached Bryant Lake Bowl we found that it was littered with people. It seemed strange for a Monday night. There was exactly one table open, so we sat down and waited, discussing beer. I rambled incoherently about my beer preference being largely dictated by the time of year, and that in light of the cool weather I would be more inclined to have a dark beer. As I trailed off into a mumble you said plainly, *I like dark beer*. We both proceeded to order Lift Bridge's Farm Girl, a " . We walked back to my apartment. I retrieved your tires. You put them over your shoulder. You opened your arms for a hug. It was the first touch. I held you next to me hoping that it would not be the last.  
  
or if it merely needed to be found: two lost halves finally bumping into each other in the most unexpected way. This was our first kiss. I walked out into the world. Everything had changed. You handed me something and I left.