---
title: 'beautiful morning'
date: "2005-08-21 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

i woke up early this morning to go out riding. i've planned to do a century in exactly one week, and haven't readied myself nearly enough, so i figured this one day of training and a lot of positive thinking ought to get me where i'm going. the weather was beautiful and the streets were quiet. everyone was either sleeping or praying for me. i headed east into saint paul, picking up the gateway trail just off of arlington and 35e. the trail had its normal sunday morning crowd: rollerbladers (flailing wildly about the path in some almost realistic visage of dionysus in his final moments), old people (some on foot, some wobbling on bicycles, and some not moving at all, but presumably on foot), court appointed landscaping crews, lance wannabes decked out in full postal gear (no one seems to have taken to the discovery channel colors, and not without reason) riding their madone's at 14mph, people of all ages on their comfort bikes refusing to believe that i needed to pass them as they furiously pedaled their small ring at 16mph, and a strange number of aspiring broomball players carrying well crafted, but seemingly useless, lengths of wood measuring about five to six feet. the weather was uncanny--bright, blue, cool--and made me wonder how many beautiful mornings i miss out on because of life's trivialities. the ride was very fast until the last ten miles when i got into the hills and turned into the sadistic wind which seemed to have come out of nowhere around 11am. final ride stats: 47.86 miles in 2'34" for an average speed of 18.6mph and a max of 31.5mph.