---
title: 'dot dot dot...'
date: "2006-03-20 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

i suppose rhetorical questions are best answered by raising one’s hand to corresponding chin and evoking a deep "hmmm...." from the exact spot where one first discovers the ability to speak "real german" (all i remember of that fiasco is announcing to several exchange students my raging horniness). hope and reason are often tightly wound reciprocals that, when multiplied, equal exactly the same thing--tenuity and inaction, whose subsequent multiplication by repeated instances evolve to equal exactly the same thing over and over and over...so, to hope, to reason, to reactionalize, to faculicilitate means exactly to do what has or has not been done or has been done but to the consequence of not having been done. do you follow? do you read between the lines and see what i’m *really* saying? of course you do! so then you know exactly how i feel even though i haven’t told you and you’ve already reasoned what i thought just a moment ago but expressed only as a period instead of a comma, eh? so to say like-like or over-like or re-like or chatter-like would only be to overstimulate that thought that you already have that tells you exactly what i’m saying in between the gibberish and playfulness. double dashes speak volumes (in body and word) and rhetoric can sometimes be overhandled or mishandled or relaid with empiricism. but it seems, to have thought between the lines during the past summer, fall, or early winter would have defeated my own logic of multiplication--one resulting from the multiplication of reason and its reciprocal--and offered me only the comfort of blooming insanity. now, i shouldn’t be so hasty, or assume that this sunny day is of your doing, but does your imagination offer you sustenance in that real me in real time, thumb wrestling himself into tattoo oblivion and fiercing one’s eyes back and forth like cross eyed meth tweaker? perhaps i hope that it would, or that i might change and tap dance my way into careful cross pollination, or that i might be recognized wearing an ironic t-shirt in the aisles at the local co-op; but on mere speculation and lovely words alone two people can be only ideal and manifest as ideal. could i satisfy you? i ask myself that like the worn out electronic nervous center to a speak and spell, and find that its reciprocal is dangerously overestimated. could i mathtrick you into passing off my faulty recitation of what i really feel as fractured beauty? doubtful. you are of exacting standards and the not fully fleshed mistakes that i’m sure to make, could you forgive those prematurely? so i could nod stupidly--yes, i like-like you and wouldn’t have it any other way--but overestimation and allocation of my senses means that bravery, whose reciprocal enumerates itself as the sun sets, comes at the cost of my tongue and the limbs of action become waylaid by dot dot dot...