---
title: "my mind wanders"
date: "2008-09-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I remember now, only after looking back, the kind of person that I was just one year ago. I was very different. There existed in my mind a very distinct line between the creative will, the lifeblood, the essential and those ideas I cultivated merely out of habit for existence. How passionless I seem now! Since then I have somehow lost these periodic loves of mine, these fine flamed gasoline romances that sparked and immolated within moments, yet continue to reshape out of the ashes in self-imitation. Three lost to vows­two to god and the other to the devil--and the others having seen an uncertainty, a devastation and helplessness that must run contrary to imagination. Oh, can it be just like that? C an it be so (fucking) ordinary? Perhaps all along I have been looking for the wrong thing, seeking the combustible for the mere hope of that supernova of souls. The sudden onset of biogenetic wanderlust! All of my photographs exhibit a certain retention of theme, that however incongruous, seems to bind me to an inaccuracy of self examination. Had I not opted for this self inflation, it seems that I would be doing what other people do--raising children and acquiring nuisances. 

This morning the sky is gray and I have little desire to do anything. The book that I am reading is not very good, I cannot eat for pleasure, and exercise is slowly grinding me into a pulpy mass of bodily helplessness. I remember none of the faces this morning, only the sensation in my right knee that rain is on its way, and the tingling in my hands that informed me that autumn started sometime without notice. College kids once again populate the campus and I confess denial in the passing of years--I still identify with these kids. Even though we could not speak a word of the same language I think of them as my peers--somehow my self vision aborted to become a premature adult. (In aspect, perpetually undernourished, though I am a hearty eater and have had plenty of credit card debt) The corporations seek me out now while I consider only what I can possibly photograph. I have been thinking lately of getting a digital slr camera. It is an affliction that I have suffered from some time. As much as I like my small, intensely durable camera there is a disconnect between what it produces and the information that my mind conveys. My stupid doodlings. 

I will almost be happy to go back to work, to begin once again an arbitrary routine of obligations. Monday a film is being shot at the restaurant just a few doors down from the bike shop. Cars are banned from that part of the parking lot. In some juvenile way this excites me. A place where I sometimes buy muffins will be forever immortalized in quadra-spectra-vision. The internet will one day forget that I existed, but something I have seen with my eyes will reflect back into the screen the many souls who have encountered it. Self-perpetuating-interminable-self-justification-of-will. Ha ha. The capacity... 

I'm within ten pounds of the top end of where I want to be from Grandma's 2k9. The first thirty-eight days of preparation have gone well. When I think about it I realize how ridiculous it is that I'm putting this much effort into finishing midpack, but when I put that much effort into thinking of any aspect of life I reach the same conclusion--it's ridiculous, all of it. 

Three or four days have passed since I opened this document and started writing. Prior to this attempt at writing, rather on a whim, I paged back one year to see what I had written on my birthday last year. I loved it. The language was intense and the fluidity with which my ideas translated into words astounded me. Perhaps I am only being duped by the obfuscated language that I intentionally use to make my own mind seem elusive. In the passing of a year maybe I have forgotten those bizarre linguistic alterations of ordinary things that I rely on to feign uniqueness and sometimes brilliance. I have to remind myself that the greater the degree of certainty, the more likely it is that that person is an idiot. Is it exciting to me to tame an idiot? Am I an idiot? Have I tamed myself? 

The problem is the dishonesty observed in one being observed, the indulgence of an alarmingly analytical mind forced by circumstance into circumspection that, when at a loss for words, resorts simply to profanity. FUC K. The problem then is that he likes himself to much. He thinks himself too worthy of praise and at liberty to ATTEMPT GRAMMAR. With bitter complaint against language itself it is sometimes thoughtworthy to reverse the values and orchestrate an intentional incongruence with the laws of academia, not out of stupidity, but for art! The words become a tumult and if I can think clearly it is only for a moment at a time, only between bouts of anxiety and reminders of intellectual inadequacy. Quickly I am distracted by a smell or the soft sounds of feet on carpeting. Surrounded by people scarcely capable of self stimulation, let alone the thought of radically altering or sharing in the electrical impulses that move and shape my brain. Poetry once again a myth, lost to cynicism and self doubt. I remember all kinds of things while I am sleeping that never happened. The only thing wedding me to a general capacity for the mechanical aspects of life is my ability to distinguish between things in my mind and things in the world. But how similar they sometimes seem! Most often I am convinced while dreaming that the things happening are real. My mind almost universally fails to distinguish or fret over my lack of corporeality. I wonder sometimes how long it will be before I lose that distinction altogether, before I gently slip rearward into something like madness, but without the fight, without any desire to retain distinctions like real and not real. When you are eighty years old it is okay. When you are twenty-eight it is something that should be combated with drugs.