---
title: "thursday ride: part III"
date: "2008-05-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

...and I'll have a temporary flash of brilliance. all the same...I'll be different then, aware of peculiar inflections manifested in long term self narration. hello? the hands precisely opposite of when I last checked them, and how flippantly they've dealt with me. the rain. the chilly spring air, and the next several hours will provide an explanation of how casually remembered the one is to the other. rain jacket. check. laundry. check. it smells purple. I've started reading books again. a graph of my literacy would be inversely proportional to one of my general competency at small tasks. so I stared down the oblong gray semispheres, the maddening arch-villains to my preplanned pleasant day. ahoy! click one. two. and begin, awkwardly acquiring momentum like one accumulates pre-approved credit offers on the kitchen table. I declared, step one: admit partial defeat and halve the exploration. twelve hours of sleep and a load of purple and the day was already segmented into wasted and fruitless. and had it been unable to turn I wouldn't have noticed for at least the first twenty miles. the only differences were the bookended signs announcing, bike center 0.4 miles. clever! I wasn't sure if it was open or closed. the barren ghost landscape left me convinced that I'd forgotten to populate an utterly boring dream with other people. I continued wishing that the skies would concede so that I might look at my bike tipped against the wall covered in mud, nodding with satisfaction at a superb explanation for my intolerability. suddenly I was on the motorway, bereft the accompaniment of growling engine noises, speed, and mock irritability. things were going well. I was drinking sun tea when suddenly I had a temporary flash of brilliance, escaping its portraiture by only a well timed forehand swipe to my nose. but suddenly I was very tired and hungry, and off of the motorway none of the trails went anywhere. I had the distinct sensation that things had gone wrong at the motorway. this is not the way they operate I told myself. this is not the way that they operate. they ride in a straight line and complain about their saddles. high and wide, baby, high and wide. here and there I noticed a lake. highway 7. county road sixty-two. a fucking plaza? and out of nowhere my stomach made a sound that should have come from the skies and the wind picked up. oh no. oh shit. I fingered my lone powergel. in little pieces it slipped away from me. sort of dizzy. sort of queasy. and I passed this kid hauling ass on his ten speed, the fucking chain slapping derailleur frame, shoe, leg, crank, and ground. I couldn't believe that it continued link after link to turn round and round or that his brain could endure it. it was all a blur. things hurt. lie down in the grass and fall asleep. do it. c'mon. I made it home and felt awful. only fifty miles. only fifty. what's wrong with me? why am I tired? the headwind? food? water? illness? depression? running legs? lack of fitness? I ate everything in the apartment and listened to the rain, taking naps and going to the bathroom as required by the natural ebb and flow of my consciousness.