---
title: "birds: part I"
date: "2007-05-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 'Life'
tags: 
---

At 5:42am I wake up to a bird lost in the throes of passion. So I stood before her majesty, head dripping off to one side, and made my belief to the sky that I would lose my form and become a bird. This year I have received three notable letters--­two asking me to go away forever and one wishing me nearer. Although I responded verbosely to each of the three the last has remained tucked away in a drawer, postage paid, in my kitchen for almost three weeks. I wonder quietly why I have not sent it. It did, after all, contain time sensitive information (it's too late...it's too late...voice in my head) or the immediacy of perpetual nuit blanche. And in its recitation we dip, sometimes wryly, into the effect of a certain pathological disorder whose only cure is to dream, whose counter intuition says to doggedly resist the outward markings or a man whose heart is not worth knowing or imagining except gelatinously on tarnished platter. Gray cloudy morning. The birds are all dead, kicked to the edges of the sidewalk and accumulating in unexpectedly ordered piles. Living out a phantasmagoric or orgasmic indulgence of sensory hesitation, drowning in a wash of illumination and strange maneuvered light­to the stresses of high powered and somewhat catty whims and pricks of delight. Me. Mine. Me. Mine. Me. Mine. To own those beautiful bodies lip locked and swaying like a macabre, broken skeleton. To take form. To ask foul. To settle in this inconvenience of reality stricken formation, and to rather impossibly feel the same resilient lust and absolution in its commitment to the momentary inflation of its form; yet, carried around daily as a mere affectation of the density and congruence of real, actual things like eating dinner or going to the bathroom or drunkenly, slovenly tipping from the arms of the balcony and its almost scripted mellifluousness. Becoming a collection of our own dreams in that honey suckled afterlife that does not situate itself on the boundary of two lives, but rather at the confluence of dreams and form. The deadliest me. The dearest mine. And we meet like opposed entities. Sometimes when it is late and the lake is shimmering in its absolute beauty, I am sure you will be there.
