---
title: 'blindly, blithely making plans'
date: "2010-01-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I have a plan for today. this morning beth woke me up. "hey, do you here mousey?" yes. mousey was in the kitchen eating something. it sounded like the crunching of cat food. we don't have a cat, but one night when a stray wandered up to me while I was in the backyard grilling I decided that we would have a cat for the night. "I just want to let it have a nice night." I went to target and bought a small bag of cat food. it was a nice cat. mangy, dirty, but with a disposition that suggested that it had known love at some point in its young life. we kept it for the night. it behaved wonderfully, making use of the makeshift litter box that we'd constructed and showing more affection than any pet I've ever had. somehow it knew. it knew that in the morning I would throw it outside and move on with my life. it did not quarrel with fate and simply scampered back under the porch where I had first heard it meowing. so this morning when I woke up it was because mousey was noisily eating kitty's food. I found out a week ago that I cannot see. I've known this for a few years, but have chosen not to do anything about it. I can see the things immediately in front of me, so it seemed of little consequence. my world was simply smaller with blurry edges. I reasoned that it could not be any more detrimental than typical human obliviousness. while others simply lack the investment in their reality to perceive things beyond a certain boundary, I could not because of physical limitations. did it matter? was I not better off because at least I was self-aware? it was ultimately the recognition of my inability to see beyond a certain distance that necessitated action. when I was unaware of my limitation I would perceive to a certain distance and then allow for things to become indistinct. however, once I was certain that I should be seeing farther I would squint my eyes trying to perceive beyond the natural boundary of my distorted optical senses. it started to give me headaches. "home of ten thousand cyclists." "what are you looking at?" "that sign." I could see nothing more than an indistinct yellow shape. my glasses should be here soon. life will change. I will have another fragile thing in perpetual danger of misplacement or damage. phone. keys. wallet. glasses. shit.

it will be nice to see things. I wonder if I will think people are beautiful or ugly?

it is late morning. beth and clementine are gone today. IKEA. I am listening to the clash and planning my day. no. I have a plan for today. I am going to run errands. I am going to go to the bookstore to find something that will compel me to read regularly again. I have started and failed to complete several books in the last few months. it has become a habit not to read, and I do not like this. for years I read at least one book every month. this year I have not. it has dulled my mind and encouraged me to be ordinary. slumping on the couch watching television. disgusting. it is time for a change. I will take more pictures. I will write more words. I will read more. I will ride my bicycles. I have been inspired by beth's new blog.

clementine and I were sitting on the kitchen floor. I looked around wondering if mousey was watching us, terrified of each of our movements. I wanted him to show himself so that she would make her animal noise. she has a special noise reserved for seeing animals. mousey did not appear. we played with play-doh, I pressed a donut shaped piece to my face and looked at her with one eye, and then the other. not quite as good with that one. she did the same, tilting her head when it covered her right eye and giggling. before she left she gave me a kiss on the cheek.