---
title: 'parlayed into parlance'
date: "2011-01-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
---

I have been feeling more balanced, with the intensity of everything correcting itself and *affording me *the satisfying, inscrutable comfort of a happy life. after a very difficult run on thursday, I had a blissful *active recovery* run on sunday. the conditions were almost identical--the temperature, wind, sunshine, time of day, and state-of-being were all approximately the same. nonetheless, the thing itself was very much transformed. that is how it is. that is how I remind myself it is. the extent of an experience cannot be gauged by only one, unique sample. saturday night: surprise party for jeff's 31st birthday. by night's end it was a room full of thirty-something-year-old-grown-ups acting silly and tipping over, intoxicated, joyous, self-indulgent in the novelty of acting foolish and uninhibited. I enjoyed myself thoroughly, gorging on beer, pinball and trivial conversation. the strangeness was in recognizing my own frivolity, and embracing it. sunday night: dinner at michelle's. playing tag. discerning that *adventures in babysitting* is explicitly a memory of those born in 1980. talking. touching. reading. thinking. being. discussing musical-memes, analogizing until everything belongs to some permutation of a facebook status update. intellectualizing the unintelligible and being generally less presentable and therefore increasingly real. waning disinterest. peaking/piquing interest. "I am the walrus". I have been reading *Brief Interviews with Hideous Men* by David Foster Wallace. I am on page 200. I have also been rereading Dostoevsky's *The Brothers Karamazov.* I am reading. I remember how to read. I am exercising my brain. *Dave, I am becoming less intelligent. My intelligence has diminished. Dave, I'm serious. This isn't merely wordplay and invocation of novelty...I am less intelligent. I have used this muscle infrequently and it has become small and feeble. *Response: More Books. More Intelligent Film. More Intelligent People And Conversation. fold myself inward like paper triangles and recollect the formation of my lobe. nownownow. go to work and remember fondly that This Is Me.