---
title: 'Detained'
date: "2009-11-02 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

This is how October ended: I was riding home from a halloween party at the same time that a game had ended at the gophers stadium. I knew when there was an endless stream of buses on the transitway that I would encounter unpleasantness at the other end. It was almost unimaginable. People were lined between makeshift fences for what seemed like miles. Traffic was at a standstill. Cars were sitting at bizarre angles and it was impossible to move forward on foot or on wheels, be it two or four. Luckily I knew a shortcut through the railyard. It's a dirt road that runs along the railroad tracks and either outlets on eighth or near the stone arch bridge. I cut between two concrete barriers and reached freedom...or so I thought. In the distance I saw three police vehicles sitting near the crossing to eighth. I thought very little of it. Certainly they had better things to do than hassle a cyclist riding on a dirt road that is rumored to be converted to a bike and pedestrian path in 2010. Apparently not. One of the SUVs lurched forward, careening wildly towards me, stopping with a skid just a couple feet in front of me. It seemed surreal. I couldn't fathom that I should actually be concerned. I got off of my bike. Officer mustache aggressively asked, "WHAT ARE YOU DOING BACK HERE?" I paused, answering honestly, indicating that I was trying to avoid that mess over there. He proceeded to accost me for being on railway property stating bluntly, "CAN'T BE BACK HERE." It wasn't clear who or what couldn't be back there. I was polite, saying things in a calm voice like, "okay" and "I understand". (meanwhile people from the game were roaming the streets with liquor in hand and filling the bike lanes with their obscenely angled automobiles) He asked for my identification. "Sure." I started reaching towards my frame pack. He tensed and altered his posture such that I thought he was going to draw his gun and shoot me. I moved slower. Deliberate movements. He sat in his vehicle with his license for quite a while. Twenty minutes? Maybe thirty? I don't know. I sat on my snapdeck and looked at the people, the stars, tried to keep sight of him in my peripheral in case he decided that I was worth shooting after all. Finally he returned, accosted me several more times as if I had not understood and already offered to comply with his instructions. At least six more okays and I understands later he started explaining where I should proceed. He curiously sent me farther into the railyard and on to eighth where there was a veritable pandemonium. People in the streets. Cars everywhere doing the most ridiculous things in an effort to free themselves from the gridlock. Hollering. Drunkenness. Almost naked people. Apparently though, resources were better spent making sure that three police vehicles were available to chase down runaway big dummys trespassing on railroad property. It was an appropriate ending to a month that was all but ruined by illness and foul weather.




 


