---
title: 'my face'
date: "2009-12-02 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

saturday night, gnawing on a frozen snickers bar, I knew that something was wrong. I didn't stop. each layer was more difficult to penetrate than the previous layer. I didn't care. I was hungry. something didn't feel right. it was cold. I didn't care. later that night when I was eating a brat I became more aware that something wasn't right. the next morning I woke up and could hardly eat anything. I felt pressure in my jaw and a very sharp pain when I tried to use my lower molars. fuck. the other side of my mouth has been essentially useless for almost two years. I've been relying on a temporary filling to hold together a tooth that consists of hollowed out nerve canals and a very large, very brittle filling. essentially, I had no way to eat food. on the way home from camping I ate only a fruit pie. the pain was worsening. by the time I got home I was extremely tired and hungry, but I couldn't eat. once I was back inside the slight numbness of being in the cold lifted and the pain intensified. mashed potatoes and eggs. yesterday I survived almost entirely on yogurt, pudding, eggs, and ensure. it was both revolting and unsatisfying. today I went to the dentist. I love my dentist. it turns out that part of one of my teeth had broken off and things were getting lodged in the hollowed out area (the opening at the top was very small while the area at the bottom was much larger). he dug out all of the food and reshaped my face. I wondered what was in there. snickers, fruitpie and bits of potato skin I'd imagine. gross. he's a wonderful man to fix problems like that.

\*\*\*

on my way home I was riding on the bike path that runs along the river road. I came up behind a man walking a dog, slowed to find a safe way to pass. the dog became aware of my presence and got excited. it moved around, entangling the man in its leash. I thought the event was humorous and expected to share a laugh. dogs are fun. it makes me smile when they get excited about strangers. instead the man turned and struck it on the back. "hitting your dog isn't cool man." he didn't answer. it was disgusting. in hindsight I should have punched him in the face or called the police. asshole.

\*\*\*

ten minutes later I was riding along a road near the farmer's market. it has very little traffic since it basically only loops around the market. there were two lanes and I was at the right edge of the right lane. a car approached rapidly from behind, revving its engine and slamming on the brakes just behind me. I thought perhaps it had missed my many flashing lights and was thankful that it must have seen me at the last second. it was not until the incident was repeated moments later that I realized I was being fucked with. I hopped the median and got the hell out of there. someone shouted something from the car. I didn't stick around long enough to find out what it was. it was at that point that I lost my faith in humanity. people shouldn't hit dogs, and they shouldn't assault other people. it sickens me. there's something wrong with these violent fuckedup, selfish, lazy people. one day there won't be people anymore, and that will be a good thing for everything else.