---
title: "generic: part I"
date: "2007-06-06 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

In the past couple of years a few things have changed. I like cucumbers now and the smell of coconut (I still do not like its texture). There was a period during the past two years when I thought that my insights were very keen and my ability to translate them into a particular language was astounding. Since then I have matured and confronted the fact that I am and have been a very redundant writer and thinker. I habitually revisit the same ideas and try to compose a congruent image of the past that does nothing to affect the future, but instead serves only as a space in which I try to define myself. I make note of things, like a sudden change in my unwavering disposition toward the taste of cucumbers or the texture of coconut, but rarely do I intertwine those footnotes with anything other than a continuum of self. I am my most important idea, but articulating that idea is served most importantly by the idea of me. It is tautological and I wonder if perhaps I am diseased. When I attempt to describe something separate from myself I find that my most impressive language is conjured by trying to obscure the thing, attempting to veil and mystify its utter and complete material with language and imagery that is mine, and most often, mine alone. I am being descriptive; however, I am doing so in the epistemological way that lovers so often employ to supplant genericism. So what else has changed? For a very brief moment I was making more money at work, then less, but more than I had been making prior to the initial fluctuation. At another moment I was entirely unemployed and juggling my debt like daggers (I cannot overestimate the influence of this period on my overall stability as a member of human society). For a few months I was napping in the afternoon because I was done with work by two o'clock in the afternoon each day. I would arrive home, completely exhausted, and sleep until it was time for dinner. My hobbies were few and I did not have a bedroom. Currently, I have a bedroom. I mostly disassociate from it consequently it is the only area of my apartment of which I am often and truly ashamed. It is a mess and more generally, an aesthetic nightmare. I sleep there and feel foreign and strange, like a substance displaced from another substance but nonetheless confined. So I make love to this picturesque ideal of becoming an absolute composition, given a beginning, middle and end. There will be rising action and falling action. Characters will be loved, hated, and misunderstood. The hero will be truly frail but also a complete fucking liar. It will be evocative, but only to him.