---
title: 'Superior trail run'
date: "2012-09-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Running
tags: ['Trail runs', 'marathon', 'IT band']
---

When I jotted down events for 2012, the Moose Mountain Marathon stood out as the culmination of a season of diligent *training*. I had designed a schedule that gradually built on my ability both generally and as a trail runner. In June I broke four hours at the Minneapolis marathon. In July I breezed through the Afton 25k trail run. My bodyweight was around 152 pounds. Things were good. 26.2 miles over extremely rugged terrain seemed almost too little of a task to warrant such attention.  
  
However, in July Michelle and I began shopping for a house. My priorities shifted. My living situation also shifted. Due to lease complications I spent the month of August living in a household that was already at its capacity, while we patiently waited to close on our lovely new house. My things remained in boxes, my space contracted, and I simply chose not to invest the time and energy in running. I trained occasionally, but never ran more than seventeen miles (and that was on pavement). My final training run turned into a catastrophe when Bryce and I abruptly ended our run, opting instead for a walking adventure through the suburbs. Nonetheless, I went to Lutsen feeling confident.  
  
Race morning was cool and calm. I lined up near the middle of the two hundred runners and we were off. The first miles were fantastic. My heart rate was where I wanted it, my body felt capable, and the weather was crisp, cool, and beautiful. I settled into a nice rhythm and enjoyed the scenery offered by the trail. The first hour of the race went extremely well. Euphoria.  
  
Around mile seven the outside of my knee began to hurt. *IT band pain*. I had experienced the sensation for the first time in early August when I went four weeks without running and then abruptly jumped into a seventeen mile run. It's a very common running injury, and given the combination of sporadic training and typical quad-dominant cycling legs, it wasn't much of a surprise that it finally afflicted me. I rolled into the first checkpoint feeling a bit grim. Fortunately, the aid station atmosphere was a bubble of positive energy that rejuvenated me physically and mentally. A handful of spectators were there cheering on the runners, and the volunteers were absolutely the nicest, most thoughtful and attentive people imaginable. I refilled my bottles, ate a piece of bread, and continued on my way.  
  
The climb out of the aid station was good for me. However, the ensuing descent further piqued my concern. The outside of my knee began to hurt more consistently/considerably. I focused on form. If I kept my stride short, my cadence high, and limited the degree to which I flexed at the knee, things were okay. I reached the second checkpoint and the midpoint of the race. I was about ten minutes slower than I anticipated, and knew that I was about to get even slower.  
  
I left the checkpoint alone. The forest got dark and it started to rain. I found myself repeatedly scanning for orange markers to indicate that I was still going the right direction. It was strange that I was neither passing or getting passed. I was alone. The rocks, roots, and boardwalks became increasingly slippery. I ran carefully, avoiding risks, as finishing with a good time had already slipped away. The event was now about the journey rather than the performance.  
  
I reached the 19 mile aid station in rough shape. Physically, I felt great. I was only limited by an aching right knee. Stupid body. There would be no more checkpoints before the finish, so leaving the aid station meant that I would finish. Eventually, I did that. Miles 19-23 were miserable. I would try to run and the stabbing pain would beat me back into a brisk hike. I ran when I could. Downhills were brutal. I walked those. Around mile 23 I figured out ways to move more effectively. The miles ticked off. Finally I recognized the turn to the lodge. The trail was behind me and I was running down a dirt road, in the rain. It was coming to an end. I crossed the finish line almost an hour slower than my goal time, but I finished. It felt pretty good at that point.