---
title: "logical ends: parts II and I"
date: "2008-03-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

(This thought suddenly occurred to me, so I wrote it down rather frantically) It's funny how everything comes down to one or two decisive moments. From this point on I shall go on believing...or do I simply behave? Suddenly I am sparing the sentiment of others. Uncanny that the darkness fades from one's thoughts as soon as they are observed, at once becoming an ambiguous gray which may or may not represent the pressing enormity of it. Some end in suicide, others redemption. Still others make no beginning or end­--they merely tread fashionably in being not quite dead. I've gone back in forth, in my tedium, my delirium, on whether any of it means nothing or all of it means something. Press upon those things most necessary in hopes that wit might disconcert it, might rectify its incompatibility with flawed human nature. And with mercenary precision confound all of those beliefs that once held cannot be rejected save for in that moment that resists nature. My naturalist in love with God, disbelieved in her articulation that with one hand I push away while with the other I latch on to something else. Making substitutions where will has not the decisiveness or clarity to fortify those misconstructions that grant divinity to even the most asinine of logical constructs. And I am forever in love with the things and people with and of whom I know nothing. My tender vague impressions liable to the most bloated deaths by nothing more than the realization that a voice I've imagined all along does not exist at all. The projection perturbed, shaken and ultimately destroyed by the inability to reconcile creator with destroyer. Do I admit, then, a certain envy of those curious souls to whom limits have no ideas? Why yes! and at the same time I make a mockery of language, purposely elevating myself such that the meager depths of my paltry intellect are confused with wit and cynicism. I am mean. How sincerely, though, is my affection for those beings who are owned by an idea. For instance, a person takes on a certain character when they (pardon my language) employ themselves at the hands of a person or corporation. Adaptability and deference are the key elements to keeping food on the table and oil in the oil barrel. However, I have known people who will suddenly proclaim during the middle of a WORKDAY that it is God who owns their soul and directs their course! and not, after all, the SUPERVISOR. While I find this behavior bizarre, mocking it and using it to justify my own worth, I must confess a certain admiration for their ability to orchestrate ideas in their head so as to allow one incompatible with primitive notions of survival to be elevated to such great heights. The hierarchy of ideas in a typical adult is heavily weighted by instincts conceived before the voice of consciousness. One must eat! It is that simple, and yet there are people whose ideas invoked of consciousness contradict this notion, and they do not eat. They fast. Not out of vanity, spite or poverty, but out of zealous dedication to an idea that contradicts primitive logic. When I am dead I am simply dead! and yet, it is not that simple. Kirillov killed himself in an act that he thought would make him a god; yet, this idea was thoroughly wedded to his waking life. It is the idea that ate him. Werther was eaten by his passion. These were the mandates of their lives as well as their deaths, and in that, was the ultimate expression of their dedication to a flawed idea. However, it is this search for a transcendent idea that builds religion and inspires martyrdom. Kirillov and Werther rooted their ideas in people­real, tangible, equally flawed people. It is easy to consider with contempt the foolishness of associating transcendental ideals with people incapable of containing them. Thus the strive for a strictly spiritual God­an entity entirely detached from the atrocities of our world, a God without will or intention who simultaneously endorses, reviles and just plain doesn't care (though He must surely still be filled with love!) People have forgotten God who wants, expects, demands and punishes. That type of form is too connected with incompatible principals. Thus the religious zealot who believes that God directs his or her course is seen as a bizarre creature, incapable of rational thought (which separates, as if by a giant wall, those things earthly and those things spiritual). In defense of that man, I love him! 

#### logical ends: part I 

Today was unusually depressing. I woke up this morning and spent the first few hours of my day paralyzed in a state of indecision. I couldn't read, run, ride my bicycle or even watch television. I was stricken with the most peculiar case of anxiety. This lack of direction left me feeling lethargic and displeased. I tried to run, but after twisting my ankle near the end of my run yesterday I decided that it would be better simply to rest. In the afternoon I went for a ride on the crosscheck. It was misting and I feared getting too far from home so I did loops of the transitway and como, comforted in the knowledge that at no time was I more than five miles from home. It was tedious. I was surprised that for almost the entire day my mind was free of exact thoughts. Even now, as I try to write things down and make some sense of what has happened I find that I can scarcely piece together an intelligible sentence, let alone something artistic or profound. I have lost a companion in myself. I have suddenly been sleeping more than normal--­napping, and then sleeping again at night. I have left this post open in my text editor, stopping occasionally to write a few words and then delete them, trying always to figure out what it's going to be about. There is a section in the Sorrows of Young Werther that I want to think about, entirely opposite but exactly the same as the one I quoted a few days ago from Kirillov and Verkhovensky. Werther was also eaten by an idea, except his idea was that of passion. He went so far as to defend a man, a logical extreme of an idea, with which he disagreed merely on the principal that their fates were wedded by being possessed of the same idea. Werther, however, did not recognize the idea in his idea. He merely thought it feeling, of which he could direct but not slow the momentum. It superseded the boundaries of all other concurrent and perhaps contradictory ideas. He mentions that he would agree with a particular notion based on an idea of justice, but that his integrity would be shattered by its implication of the superidea--­namely, of his passion. The level of commitment that both he and Kirillov show for an idea is astounding to me. I wonder in place if I could ever feel so sure of a notion that has been worked out logically­--by my own measure anyway--­that it could trample all other preexisting ideas. I work my way through a thought until it overlaps with another idea in a way that makes one or the other implicitly false. As the new idea has no root it is most frequently abolished or settles just below the point of the old idea. Say, for instance, that I have a series of ideas existing in my mind, each on its own tier of importance. That a radical idea could traverse each tier without conflict seems impossible! And most likely it is. This is how I maintain a sense of principal­--the ideas that cannot be traversed by any contradictory idea give me solidity. However, it also prevents me from embracing radical concepts, and invokes a certain degree of stagnation. 

I have to get ready for work, but I hope to continue this thought.