---
title: 'walking'
date: "2012-02-18 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
---

On my way home from work last night I decided to stop at the Seward Co-op. Olives, I wanted Kalamata olives for the delicious salad I would soon be eating. MMMMmmmm. After delightfully stumbling my way to the obligatory twenty five dollar purchase (note: there is no official minimum purchase...it's merely a noteworthy behavioral thing), I returned to my bike to find that the rear tube was flat. *Oh no!* It wasn't really that bad, of course, as I had three tubes, co2 cartridges, a mini pump, tire levers, patches, loose fitting tires, a quick release wheel, and was standing no more than three feet from the brilliant bike repair station positioned in front of the store. I looked at it. I stared uncomfortably at it. It would have taken approximately three minutes to fix it. Rather than fix it, I decided to walk the one mile home. Ha hah. I'd like to propose one of the following explanations: I worked out the math and the difference between walking and biking would have been less than the time to change the flat (false), some unforeseen equipment failure meant that it could not be changed (false), the severity of the flat rendered the tire completely useless (false), or I love a good evening stroll through the Seward neighborhood (??). While none of these explanations resonated *exactly* true, I latched on to the idea that I simply wanted to take a nice stroll through the neighborhood. In spite of my resounding lack of ability, I like to run. I also like to hike (walking slowly with a bunch of stuff through the woods, with occasional stops to peer majestically into the distance). However, I have never developed a genuine affection for walking. Lately, I have been taking opportunities to simply walk places, slowing the world down from the speed of the bicycle-to the feet of my feet shuffling quickly-to the speed of my feet moving in deliberate, measured paces. It has been an enjoyable experience. I have learned about the locations of things, the atmosphere of neighborhoods that I often bypass in a heated frenzy of spinning legs and attention to the spidered cracks in the pavement. One day a few months ago I decided to make the seven mile walk home from work...no running allowed. I learned a lot about the things that I see each day from my bicycle. None of this, unfortunately, explains why it is now morning and--even though I have to leave for work in fifteen minutes--I *still* haven't changed the flat on my bicycle...