---
title: 'sundays are getting awesome'
date: "2010-03-08 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

sundays are starting to get awesome. the plan for this past sunday was to meet hip alex at the bike shop, do roughly the same loop as last week (although I am making some refinements to it to make it the ultimate summer road route), and have him back at the bike shop by the time it opened at noon. the weather forecast wasn't bad: a very slight chance of scattered precipitation, a bit of fog, and warm temperatures. I slept poorly saturday night, waking up at 3:30am and not getting back to sleep until it was almost time to wake up. maybe I was just that excited to ride my bike. this time of year there's not much better in my world. we both arrived at the shop a few minutes early. I ate a bagel while alex made a few modifications to his bike. somehow that consumed more time than I would have liked and we didn't leave the shop until 8:15. I was still confident we could finish in time. we started down como. just after the bridge at western I heard the unmistakable thwapping of something lodged in my tire. I'd put on the fast tires for this ride: 32mm specialized borough cx tires. they weren't quite up to the rigors of the debris strewn streets. I pulled the tire off and realized that I didn't have a long valve tube. fortunately I also had some park glueless patches. most bike shop employees will tell you that these don't work, but they're either lying or have not used them. I think part of it is that it seems too easy. there must be something more mystical than slightly abrading the tube and putting a glorified sticker on it. nope. they work great. we were close to alex's house so I had the luxury of a floor pump to re-inflate. we were back on our way. I felt nervous relying on patches for the duration of the ride, but I didn't want to deal with it properly. the first part of the ride is extremely hilly. I was feeling tired on some of the steeper sections. my breathing was labored and my legs felt heavy. it would get better. we detoured from the familiarity of military road to check out a lower traffic alternative. it was awesome. a few additional hills, very few cars and even a nice mile or two of well maintained gravel. I have another idea to explore next time we ride that route. it will remain a secret for the moment, but I think it will be awesome. we hit the long downhill section of trading post trail. from that point the ride got a lot faster. once we'd made it through all of the hilly stuff we had a tailwind. we cruised down 10/minnehaha at 20- plus-mph. it was pretty amazing and even with the delays and navigational miscalculations (the alternative route was a bit longer and much more challenging) we were back at the shop only ten minutes after it opened. it could have been a lot worse. the weather ended up being quite lovely. we did not encounter any rain, the winds lined up in the best possible way, and the temperatures were downright balmy. it's good to be riding on sundays again.