---
title: "some thoughts and then a dream: part I"
date: "2007-06-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Left work yesterday intending to do a seventy mile ride out to Lake Minnetonka and back. We started well enough. I was riding my fixed gear with much too small of a gear on it, so naturally I was getting my ass handed to me; still, we were making fairly good time. Around mile twenty Jeff had a problem with his rear wheel contacting his frame and I noticed that my saddle had slipped a couple of inches. Ryan was curiously problem free. We switched Jeff's tires from front to back and vice versa, elevated my saddle to an uncomfortably high position and went on our way. I stopped again in a short distance to remedy the new saddle problem, glancing at the clock and realizing that we were on pace to be back to saint paul after 9:30pm. Reluctantly (although jubilantly) I suggested turning back and heading home. No one opposed. On the way back there was a stretch of Minnetonka blvd that had been torn to shreds and produced a jackhammer effect in the front end of the bike. My hands flirted with numbness for the ensuing twenty miles. Going east on the greenway I acquainted myself with the precise level of pain that a flat open road, a tailwind, and a constantly spinning tiny gear can produce. My cadence hovered around 110rpm for almost a ten mile stretch. It was unpleasant. Jeff was mashing a much larger gear and Ryan was shifting at will. I was the weak link. My legs were completely fried by the time that I got home. We ate at Perkins. I was still hungry when I left. 

I had another bizarre dream last night. I was in some kind of dinner theater with a sixteen year old girl­short dark hair, dark eyes, older appearance, but you could still tell that she was sixteen. We were talking about artistic passion. The ceilings were high and the illumination of the room was elegant. Suddenly FBI started swooping in from every direction. My eyes locked on to a very thin man fleeing on stilts. His shoulder length hair peeked out from underneath a tophat that was too large for his head. He had a diseased looking monkey with him. Rather suddenly he tripped and fell through a glass door, dropping several stories into the serene, moonlit lake below. There was an explosion and the surface of the water was covered with fire. I was in the water with him, looking up at the shadows and the hazy outlines of the flames. I thought the words, "I can see the shadows so well...almost too well." Fast forward. I'm back with the girl. She tells me that she had tipped off the FBI about his monkey because her mom told her to do so. I'm furious but I don't say anything. Fast forward again. I'm in a movie theater watching myself on the screen. Everyone else is out of their seat dancing. It's not a regular sort of dance. It's like clutching yourself because you're in incredible pain. A few people are glancing at me almost menacingly as I remain seated. Now there are words on the screen that read, "Anyone still in their seat does not get it." 

I woke up and made coffee.