---
title: "grandma's marathon 2009"
date: "2009-01-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

Tomorrow registration for Grandma's marathon 2009 opens. After running last year I was certain that I would return this year. After completing last year's run, I was high on the euphoria brought about by the unlikely circumstances of the day. I went in with tired legs after riding 165 miles on a loaded cargo bicycle to get to Duluth. Furthermore, I hadn't run in a month due to injury. It was only due to a supreme display of arrogance that I made it to the starting line. The winter has tempered my attitude, and I have to once again consider whether I want to spend the spring training for an endurance running event at the expense of my other hobbies. I cycled almost 150% as much in the last six months of last year as I did in the first six months. I could indulge in overnight camping trips without concern for waking up early in the morning, well rested and ready for hours of running. It would be nice to enjoy different things this spring. Ride more. Camp. Run for enjoyment instead of "training". What I'd really like to do is run the half marathon. I'm confident that I could run that distance with little to no specific training, thus allowing me to indulge in the electric atmosphere of the event without having to sacrifice any of the other things that I enjoy. Unfortunately the half marathon is a lottery, and participants are not decided until well after the point at which the full marathon will be full. This leaves me with a couple of options: forego registering for the full marathon and accept that the likelihood of running won't be that high, or register for both events and double my registration fee. In May I'm planning to ride the Almanzo 100. It's a 100 mile dirt road race that start in Rochester. This will further complicate the matter as I will have to be sure that I have strong enough cycling legs to perform well with knobby tires and uncertain road and weather conditions. Sigh, how we complicate our simple lives!
