---
title: 'do not say'
date: "2006-02-03 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

i’m on the third floor of the library watching the static of snow dance through the barren veins of dried blackness, playful and spiteful. wind and quiet. yesterday was beautiful. the sun warmed my ears and i glowed against the backdrop of a twelve foot shadow spread out across a lake of mud. i am eager and anticipatory. in between classes i am diligent and purposeful, humming murder ballads in my head as i walk three flights of stairs, two steps at a time. now i stare through the window like it isn’t there. the people move around me with their strangely textured too long parkas and tactile-revisionist brief-bags. their eyes are on me or the place on the wall behind me. i’m killing time.

school has started again for the semester. it seems that i am always hungry or sitting around waiting for class to start or ticking away the seconds with the hesitant hand. clocks no longer have a second hand. i am left to trust that somewhere behind its mocking face and insistent hands there is something happening, something truthful that will reflect faithfully in its configuration as it frowns back at me with the news that i have to be somewhere, i have to go somewhere, i should fall asleep or i should die. most of the clocks here have second hands but they seem to move with their own savage nondiscrimination. i leave class expecting the rest of the world to be experiencing some other time altogether.

i watch people move and i want to describe them. i want to describe how they look and what they feel. i want to explain the slump in their spine and the lean of their body. maybe it’s because they’re walking into that chill and inconsiderate wind that shuffles the snowflakes like malevolent pixies through tree bark scented air. maybe it’s a deficiency of some essential vitamin or mineral; or perhaps it is only that the spine is supposed to stoop. maybe it is returning to its natural state and the creature to its natural four legged persuasion. society allows for slumps of the spine. osteoporosis awareness and comically poor posture. the gradual elongation of the human lifespan. the dreadful truth of being lonely for sixty years. partial recoveries from once fatal mishaps. the weak and the stooped have the faculty to live. remaining upright is a chore that i no longer seek. i reach inside of my skin and rotate my pelvis.

a crippled elderly woman dressed in purple and tubes held her ground behind the counter in an indistinct heap. her skin clung to her bones in speckles of white and pink, her cardiovascular system too troubled to live or die. she held her hands together and when she said hello to me i looked around, expecting the noise to have arrived from some other source. she didn’t look up and the only indication that she was alive was the slight shifting in her tubes as she caught her breath after greeting me. after an uncomfortable pause i sent a half hearted greeting vaguely in her direction, still not quite believing that she could have been the source of the original offering. i was caught in the awkward position of having my torso twisted in both the direction that i had come from and not at all the direction that i wanted to go, congruently because it would have seemed unnatural and because i had no desire to move in that direction. a smartly dressed and neat man with a thick middle eastern accent called her grandma and asked if she had been eating pringles. his voice was strained like an adult actor trying to get his start in films made for children while he really desired to be in hardcore pornography. i couldn’t help wondering...