---
title: 'reverberation'
date: "2010-09-27 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
---

The fog is beginning to lift. I've spent the last ten days with a mild cold. After about the fourth day I thought I was at the end, but it just lingered. It has not helped that much of last week was cold, windy and rainy. Tuesday I managed to get in a decent ride out to Afton, but aside from that my week of riding was primarily trudging through my work commute in the rain. Yesterday I was feeling better and the skies were blue so I decided to get in a long gravel ride with one of our customers from the shop. We did the route that I've done a handful of times this year, going out to Chaska via the LRT and then connecting a weaving series of roads to Watertown before returning home on the Luce Line. The section from Chaska to Watertown was gorgeous. Harvest colors dominated the landscape, and the sound of crunching gravel reverberated through the intoxicating blue sky. Bill made excellent company and we were quickly sitting at Crow River Coffee eating lunch (did I mention this guy is almost exactly twice my age and was hanging in there just fine?). I had a chicken wrap and a bowl of chili. It was a splendid lunch. The ride back on the Luce Line was uneventful. The skies remained blue, the air windless, and the temperature just about perfect. I cannot complain about much. We returned to my place with just over ninety-five miles. Shortly after returning I rode over to Joey's, giving me another day over one hundred miles. This is the September that I know and love. I think I'm finally at the end of this illness. I wanted September to be the month that really set in motion my training for next year's Tour Divide. After taking a few days off for hiking, and then missing/shortening additional days to rain and illness, it's definitely not going to be that. Nonetheless, I'm finishing strong and hopefully setting up good things for October. Most importantly, I'm having fun and enjoying the last moments before winter wraps me in its icy grip.