---
title: 'non-fiction?'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

this is what she wrote:

3am and i am awake. my dreams are often of him. this is especially true when we are not okay. the only thing peculiar about this is the content. when i have gone away, my dreams of him are beautiful; pulling me home. when i am home, my dreams are anxious. full of lies. otherlovers. insecurities. her face(s). these dreams pull me away. we are like this. tim has asked me to write my version. add non to the accused fiction. but the truth is i was wrong. his experience was real to him and i have no right to attempt to disprove it. the only thing i will say is that we are real. i did not leave him any more or less than he left me. still, he felt abandoned and betrayed. i walked out the door feeling equally abandoned and betrayed. why don't you stop me?? we are like this. 

april thirteenth i saw tim's face. a year earlier, i had be"friend"ed him. but nothing. this time: you are pretty... he responded; and it was fun. i replied; and it was still fun. he responded yet again, and it was over. i was over. everything would change now. it was only him. i was living with the father of my child. i was not happy, but i was enduring. charlie. the man tim is losing(but not at all) me to. the first snow. april snowfall is not unheard of. winter plans turned to july, july turned to june, june turned to next week, to now.

we already knew all of the important things about each other. all of the things that everyone else would find "weird", simple, sometimes inappropriate. we are like this. we met in a park. silence. melting into each other. innocent and exploratory. there was nothing awkward. nothing "sexual". we learned breathing patterns, smells, movements. we learned how skin felt on skin. i do not like touching someone new. they are always too cold. too hot. clammy. sticky. rough. i recoiled at the slightest brush of a stranger. tim was different. there was familiarity and ease that i have only felt with my skin against my own, and against my baby. we pushed away and returned to our homes. i think i am ready to drop everything.. i did not know what this meant. i asked him to meet me tomorrow. again the next day. slowly we spoke more. he talked about eating bran cereal and wearing wool. he smelled like earth-friendly handsoap and dryer sheets. he wore napkin shorts with sweaters, left notes for me in his pockets, and spent nights with me in the cat room. "i never wanted to be away from him".

exactly two months after our first words, he showed up with keys and questions. are you sure? am i sure? silly, really. nature agreed. a bug the size of a small kitten was attached to his shirt. he freaked, i laughed, and the questions stopped. yes, i was sure. we should live together. but was it too soon? what will everyone think? who cares. we are like this. june sixteenth we woke up in the same bed. the same bed he was in alone this morning while i slept angrily on the couch. we shared our first morning. we did not know the others routines yet. we followed each other around. we smiled. it is four months later now. at night i make his sandwiches. sometimes two, sometimes four, almost always three. in the morning i make coffee while he showers. he always eats the same breakfast: half honey nut cheerios, half all bran("not the pellets. the ones that look like little twigs."). the other morning i noticed he had oatmeal instead. there was only a small amount of milk in the fridge and i assume he did this to save the milk for baby's breakfast. i love these things about him. i love the things he does not think i notice. the things he thinks i dislike about him. i love the way he thinks and the way he moves. i love that my baby loves him. i love that he shares himself with very few and i am one of them. at the end of the day, we meet in the same place. our home is always glowing with golden warmth. it smells of incense and cooking food. most days we eat dinner, follow our routines, and go to sleep. sometimes we still follow each other around the house, smiling. we are in love. some days we break down. we give up. we walk away. we put on poker faces and pretend we are done. but we are real.

i am waiting for him to make a call and sign a paper.