---
title: 'End of year post 1 of 4'
date: "2010-12-27 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
---

This year has been...eventful. The implausibility of comprehension yields nothing more than the provocation of introspection and it is that, I suppose, that I most hope to capture in this series of posts. Sometimes looking forward, sometimes back, this is where/who/what I am.  
  
*People*. I started the year with completely different relationships. Those that have remained have changed so significantly that I have trouble associating them with the corresponding relationship from the beginning of the year. I reached a moment mid-stride when time seemed to stop and I stood before my sprawling, frozen, motionless life with the utter freedom of *recognizing my despair*. I wanted my relationships to be different. Rather than protect the equity of our investment I decided that I wanted to facilitate greater relationships by changing the parameters of how *our everything flows and functions. *The result was sincerity and vulnerability. I became more invested, interested and empathetic with* my people*. I am grateful to my oldest friends, who have been with me through the many permutations of finding out what it means to be ME...the ME that I am now...the one in whom I take joy experiencing and sharing with the people in my life.  
  
*Places*. I moved in June. It took months to adapt to this new space and it is still not a place that is Home. It never will be...Home is somewhere in the future. For now though, I like living there. My world has grown smaller. I walk places. Going to the grocery store is not an ordeal. My rooms are small and simple. I think about the things that I put in them. Nevertheless, it is an evolving process. Recently I became aware that it is completely unnecessary for me to own a microwave. Even without considering the contentious issue of potential health implications, it was easy to recognize (once considered) that I did not use it. I need to remind myself to continue evaluating the things that I do, especially as it pertains to habitual, transparent, culturally dispensed behaviors and methods. I had a microwave because contemporary kitchens have microwaves. I prefer eating leftovers cold and my freezer hasn't had anything in it in months.  
  
*Food*. I have spent almost four years of my life as a vegetarian. This included two stints of between a year and a half and two years. I am listing this direction again. A few months ago I stopped having meat in the house. The cause: perpetual *foodguilt *and thriftiness. I have lived with *foodguilt *for most of my adult-life. Even during periods when I have been a *prolific meat eater* I knew that I was doing something wrong. I was making an easy choice. Being with Michelle has heightened this awareness. It is not at all that she has made me feel guilty about my behavior or that I am being assimilated by an infiltrating, progressive brainwashing. No, quite the opposite: she has inspired me through the example that she sets in her life ethically, scientifically and creatively. The way that she understands, respects and takes joy in *nourishment *is the *hope *that I needed to stir myself into manifesting the behavior that matches the ME of my mind. Furthermore, meat is expensive. It is not nearly as expensive as it *should be*, but for someone in my economic class it nonetheless represents a substantial financial commitment. Over the summer my money started going to other things, so food needed to comprise less of my budget. I have learned enough about food that a proper diet is possible, especially if I am still consuming dairy products. There's really no excuse and I make none at home. However, at work I have been frequently lazy and apathetic about my food choices. In 2011 this will change. I do not intend to become a *strict* vegetarian, but I do intend to eliminate meat in my "daily diet". If I am in a social situation, or presented with a unique and healthy opportunity I will not get dogmatic about it. But I will think in those moments about what I am doing and whether it is something that I want for myself.  
  
End part 1.