---
title: "I peer up at the industrious worker-bee roads..."
date: "2008-11-02 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

…leading nowhere, deeply organic and moved by economics, and imagine imagination as a culmination of the odd moments that I have spent unalone. The perpetually passing friendships, the inevitably flawed romantics, and how its only reliable quality is that of being momentary. I met two strangers on that bridge, passing waves of silence and conversation, eyes affixed to his and hers while cognizance, recognition, awkwardness were all reserved for that breach of collective thought that never happened. And on, tick tick tick. The two strangers off into the descending streetlamps without word or future, doomed to each other no less than to myself. I remember that friendship and contemplate the remaining odds. Would I wager money on the anticlimactic end that now seems so inescapable? They've been not unlike all of the others and all of the future. Yet, immense weight and strength must be found in the art of perseverance. I find myself thinking of what I imagine will be an undeniable ending in chaos, destruction, madness. But the truth is that the unchallenged momentum of the thing is far more substantial than the fact that its constituents are comprised of things forced together like the gathering snow of an avalanche ...and with a chuckle recognizing that sometimes it is nothing more than the lack of a will to destroy that bonds and unifies. No psychic connection, no infatuation, no dreaming or lust or fits of passion­--no, just the lack of will to destroy the thing. It's what I miss most. The regularity. The familiarity of graffiti on outhouse walls, the stupor of finally reading words that my eyes have scanned a thousand times over. 

I have a new agenda. In whispers. In pacifism. In silent and soul sucking mediocrity. I have this little red splotch on my face. It started about a month ago at which time I celebrated the second coming of my pubescence. After showing no change for a week my posture slumped and I admitted to myself that it was not caused by uncontrollable levels of the male hormone SEX, but more likely by an ingrown hair from having recently shaved my beard. Several weeks have now passed and I remain uncertain about the little red splotch on my face. I have been too frightened to look on WEBMD, for fear that it might be a symptom of the GRADUAL EVOLUTION OF A NON-PERSEVERING MIND INTO MEDIOCRITY. I wouldn't want to know. It doesn't bother me except in the morning as I stand in front of the mirror brushing my teeth and trying to muster self confidence (brooding arrogance).