---
title: "capsized: part I"
date: "2007-04-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 'Life' 
tags: 'Dreams'
---

I had a very strange dream last night. It went something like this: I was in the company of two British people, one male and one female. We were near a strip mall that had a harbor at one of its ends. I sensed that I was in love with the girl and she was in love with me. Neither of us made any mention of it, but it was not in the quaint, childish way that people usually avoid their feelings. The man and I boarded a boat that was filled with raw meat. The smell was putrid. My job was to position myself as a ballast on top of one of the stacks of meat while my friend piloted the boat. I didn't really know what I was doing, but I wanted to seem smart and sophisticated so I played along. As we were leaving I felt a sudden pang for the girl and purposely capsized the boat. Back on the dock my friend smiled at me as if to say, "I know what that was all about." He wasn't angry. He just smiled at me and asked, "Don't you ever go boating at midnight?" It wasn't a question I was supposed to answer. I chuckled and we walked back to where we had left our female companion. She immediately jumped into my arms and we fell to the ground. I grabbed her buttocks with my right hand. Someone made a comment about my lewdness, to which I replied, "I was only checking for a wallet." Everyone laughed and I felt stupid, but not in the childish way where one tries to back his way out of it. She started talking­"Promise me that we won't ever be the same size. I can't be big like you and you can't be small like me." In her excitement she started crying. I quickly promised. Her hair was suddenly much longer and rather disheveled. Her face, too, grew wild and sunken, and I could scarcely recognize her as she pinned me violently to the ground. Another unspoken change came over her but I shudder at the thought of putting it to paper. She smirked devilishly. I woke up feeling very lonely.
