---
title: "uhhh: part I"
date: "2008-07-01 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

This morning, while thinking my dream ridiculous, I became aware of my state of consciousness as something contained within my own mind. I began to distort my dreams into absurd parodies of life. Hah ha! The control! No matter how I manipulated the shapes and forms, however, I could not keep myself interested. Images of clocks kept haunting my dreamscape and I kept fighting to regain control of my dream: "you are only dreaming." At first the clocks threatened me with the notion that I was late for work, but the time was too absurd. Afternoontime. I don't believe it. Not for an instant. The images shifted and changed and my self sabotage became more convincing. Just after 10am? Maybe. The panic grew until I at once reminded myself that I was still stuck in a dream. I fought like this for an unknowable amount of time, but gradually my dreamscape became littered with clocks and nothingness. No longer were there people for me to manipulate, lighting for me to change, or the effects of my own inflated being to scrutinize. Slowly I lost myself to syncopation, my eyes fluttered open, and I became entangled with anterior images whose consistency I could not alter, not with all of the will of my person. I was torn, upon waking, whether it was better to be devoid of specificity and perpetually bored, or by all accounts, impotent. In one world capable of producing any image, while in the other mentally lost to the only outlet for astatic image creation: fucking. It was only a moment before I began to destroy, before I started to turn useful things into garbage. I remember hearing about a guy who kept all of his garbage for a year in order to illustrate exactly how much toxic shit we produce annually. I wonder about doing the same things except modifying the experiment to have one pile for waste and one for creation. Would there be anything in the second pile? Paintings? Words? Sculptures? Mittens? At some point these things will all become waste, so we might as well just put them in the first pile immediately. They do not change, and in doing so (or failing to do so) they become garbage. Trash. Nothingness which consumes and devastates a dreamscape whose canvas is otherwise untainted by a failure of conception to move beyond the limits and scope of a single human idea. I read. I write. I fracturate. I spoke with a man yesterday whose mind has been frazzled and become entirely gelatinous by his confusion between a reality where things will always continue to exist as something and a world where things can halt abruptly and retroactively have not existed at all. It is impossible to have a conversation with him because there are moments when the conversation ceases and then begins anew. It can happen in the span of a breath. Suddenly we are talking about something else. Suddenly we are talking about something precisely opposite of what we were a moment ago, except I have existed on a continuum. He moves and shapes his world as if he is dreaming, escaping the ticking, clapping, maddening hands of people and clocks by pressing his imagination, punctuating his day with a million alterations of an idea. I love and hate him. (He is not me. He is me.) Maybe? Have I conceived of this flighty, neurotic imbecile out of distaste for the regularity of my day? It happens not infrequently that I am thinking of something and it will either happen or someone will verbalize some variation of the same thought. I often contemplate whether I have produced this sentiment or whether it emanates from another unspoken, unseen stimulus. And I am thinking in a fog, having escaped prematurely from my dreams to the early morning hours before my skin will grow sticky and toxic­--the aesthetic of a thing displaced from dreaming, once again activating its mind in a way that once natural, has grown awkward and laborious. I like to read missed connections on craigslist. I like to read what people write when they are trying to be specific enough to elicit notice while maintaining the lie that they are posting anonymously. Hah ha. But it is so transparent. Line up ten craigslist posters and I will match at least eight of them to their post. It is that madman or woman who conceives without truth or lies, only alterations, who I will fail to identify, this man whom I spoke to only out of rhythm. Only occasionally did I trouble myself with the actual words of our conversation.