---
title: 'polar dash half marathon'
date: "2012-01-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Running
tags: 'half marathon'
---

We had a pleasant, albeit low-key New Year's Eve. The forecasted rain and snow resulted in staying at home, watching a movie, and falling asleep not long after midnight. I was reluctant to wake up in the morning. I hadn't properly trained to run a half marathon, but I nonetheless made the resolution to participate in more things in 2012 so I was going to do it. The streets were slick and the wind was slapping the screen door violently from side to side. I ate breakfast, got dressed and emerged into the slightly more authentic New Year (contemplating the holidays from the comfort of a long sleeved shirt and jeans seems so grossly inappropriate). I rolled up to the start and locked my bike nearby. Haw ha. Watching other people try to navigate their cars on the slippery side streets while visually scouring for potential parking made me appreciate that 1.) the race was very close to my house, and 2.) I did not solicit a ride from my lovely girlfriend. There were many more people than I expected at the start (almost 1000 people finished either the 10k or half marathon, with another 1000 or so running the 5k) I wasn't particularly excited about the course as it was comprised of two out and backs on the East River road. A rousing version of the national anthem was capped by a bald eagle circling overhead. There was much speculation amongst the crowd as to whether it was included in our $50 registration fee or mere serendipity. Either way, it was cool...unless, of course, the poor thing has been kept in captivity for its one chance to circle high above an emotionally charged, shivering mass. Patriotism piqued, I began the slow shuffle of a thousand people all trying to begin running at the same time. I had intentionally lined up near the 2 hour pacer because of an ill conceived, subterranean plan to finish in under two hours. Properly trained, sub two hours would be *no big thing*, but the Texas trip, Christmas and generally poor planning meant that I hadn't run in a few weeks. Only a short distance into the race I passed the pacer and decided that I'd try to stay in front of her. Since it was an out and back I would have an idea of how much of a cushion I had at each of the turnarounds. At the first turnaround I heard someone yell, "YEAH TIM!" I was surprised to find someone in attendance as I told Michelle that she should probably just come for the finish given the blustery conditions and general comfort of the bed at that hour of the morning. It was former coworker Larry, likely out cheering for his daughter. As I rounded the corner I found the pacer only about fifteen to twenty seconds behind me. I had settled in, shed some clothes, and was now feeling quite good. I upped the pace. The next turnaround was at the finish of the 10k and 5k. There were runners from each group finishing as the 5k started fifteen minutes after the 10k/half. It was a bit of a mess. The finishing 5k'ers were doing about 14 minute miles and causing a bit of havoc amongst the groups of passing runners. Only the half marathon runners took the next turnaround, so things thinned out. Unfortunately, I didn't see how far I was in front of the pacer due to the chaos. Oh well, I still felt good. I ran hard to the final turnaround, hoping to bank as much time as possible before the inevitable performance drop of the final miles for which I had done absolutely no training. I couldn't believe it. I ran for what seemed like an eternity before spotting the two hour group. I calculated that I was roughly equidistant between the 1:45 pacer in front of me and the 2:00 pacer behind me. Lovely! Even with a disastrous bonk in the final three miles, I was sure to finish well under my secret two hour goal. The lack of training started to catch up with me near the finish and I crossed running on empty, but with a chip time of 1:53:52. I was happy. A couple of minutes passed and Michelle rolled up with balloons tied to her bike and bell ringing. I had told her that it would be at least two hours before I finished, so she narrowly missed me at the finish, but I was still thrilled to see her. We rode home together, looking like probably the cutest couple that's ever been.