---
title: "the disappearing money: part I"
date: "2008-03-27 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

The slow, deadly slog through March continues. The other day I noticed a charge on my checking account that I could not recall making. A quick google search revealed a host of others who had received fraudulent charges on their accounts in a similar fashion--足incorrect address (mine was listed as a PO box in Texas) and the same third party billing company charging on behalf of a fictitious media company. The reports went back more than two years and were frequently reported by Bank of America customers. As such, I was forced to close my checking account and hope that my tax return doesn't end up in an electronic void. That was yesterday. This morning I was about to pay some bills and found that all of the money in my account had disappeared. I was penniless. It was a strange sensation, to be so entirely helpless. I went to the bank to ask for an explanation. "Where is my money?" I asked. Eventually she found my money in my old account--足the transfer had been rejected because all debits were being rejected, even those facilitated by their own employees. As she embarked on seemingly the same procedure as the girl from the previous day, I asked for reassurance both that my tax return would not end up in an electronic void and that my other money would not suddenly disappear. Her response was, "It should be fine, but you never know. Sometimes things happen like this morning when you looked in your account and there was no money." It seemed odd to me since I was in a bank talking to a bank employee. It was like we were talking about the weather足--"Oh, it might snow, but you never can tell for sure how those things will play out!" It seems like a bank should know how things will play out and not simply rely on forecasting足--"Thursday there will be a 60% chance of money in your bank account." I left feeling extremely disconcerted. 

Earlier in the day I managed my first run over five miles since THE ILLNESS. It was extremely difficult, even from the very start. My heart rate was about 40bpm higher than it would have been on a similar run a month ago. I haven't been in this sorry of a state in many years. I plotted on my google calendar the absolute minimum amount of running that I will need to finish grandma's. I'm essentially at a point where I can no longer miss even a single run. I think there is still something amiss with my lungs. I no longer have any difficulty cycling, but I rely much less on my lungs and much more on my legs while cycling. My breath feels very shallow and rapid. For long stretches today I focused on nothing more than trying to take fewer and deeper breaths. I am hoping that it will get easier with time, but the rate at which I will have to increase mileage hardly seems the best way to facilitate a gradual recovery.