---
title: 'Work and uhm, stuff'
date: "2012-11-06 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
---

Three times in the past three days, I've set the alarm without resetting it for anti daylight savings time. Fortunately, on two of those days I simply continued sleeping, as the early morning rain convinced me that moving my run to the evening would be a wise course of action. However, when I've finally gotten out of bed, I've found that in the rest of the world my alarm would not have even sounded yet. Amazing! So, task for today: set bedroom alarm clock to anti daylight savings time. Reality is this: with technology imposing its role in my life, I hardly even think about things like daylight savings time. I assume that my computer, phone, and stovetop will just correct the time for me. To a large degree, that is true. It is probably a very good thing to have a bedside alarm clock reminding me that my life is not automatic.  
  
I have started a second job and reduced my hours at the Bicycle Chain. Since moving, I have realized that change was necessary, either in the form of expanding operations at my current place of employment or diversifying my time and energy. After much deliberation, conversation, hair pulling, and head scratching, I opted for the latter. The local bike shop is a changing landscape. Like the anti-small-hardware-store boom, things are getting bigger. If you want to be the one in five small hardware store that survives, you need to be in the perfect situation. Perhaps the Bicycle Chain is that exception, but I am frightened enough of trends in the marketplace that given the opportunity to further develop another skill set, it seemed crazy to pass it up. Three days a week, I will be working at <a href="http://www.sundaysenergy.com" target="_blank">Sundays Energy</a> in the Ivy building. The first couple of days were bumpy, but yesterday I felt like I settled into more of a groove. I was able to complete a few tasks without supervision or correction. I have some core competency, gleaned both from being my hobbies and building the software that has been operating the Bicycle Chain's inventory, service, and bike management for the past several years. I just need to develop more refined and sophisticated skills. Baby steps.  
  
Today is election day. It seems particularly strange to me because I have not watched television since July, nor have I been inclined to watch anything on youtube or other internet media outlets. The fervor is absent from my life. I will just go and pick some people to do some things, and decide some stuff about what other people can and cannot do. I should probably be more excited about it.  
  
Sunday Bryce and I met up early in the morning for a run at the River bottoms. We met at my house, rode our bikes two miles to the light rail station, and then took that to the American Blvd. stop, just south of the airport. The morning was beautiful. Crisp, clear, crunchy. I love the sounds of autumn. I love my footfall. I love the condensation that turns into a light frost on my wool shirt. It is really the best, and this year, we have had much of it. Within a mile and a half, Bryce was suffering from knee pain. Strangely, many people in my life seem to be similarly afflicted with finicky IT bands. He turned around, and I was left to complete the remainder of the ten mile run on my own. It was peaceful. I settled into a nice rhythm. Boredom did begin to creep in towards the end of the run--as flatland running lacks a certain "something" for me--but I finished feeling strong and happy. Stress melts away in those moments, and I am sure of both my place in the world and the many ways in which one can meander to something good.