---
title: 'contortions and considerations'
date: "2009-01-26 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

It is evening. At my computer, assessing and inventorying. Life management. Today I spent just about three hours on my bicycle. Good start. Training. Making plans. Keep repeating in my mind, "it's time to get serious. Train more. Get serious." If I make a strong push this week I can finish January with 500 miles. Not great, but not bad given the weather conditions. It's a big improvement over last year, although I did run a lot more last January. But then again, I've done a lot better with the weights this year. Last night I had a dream that I was in a retail store buying things, being watched. It was unsettling. The security guard nodded for me to follow him out the front door. We were being chased. We got into his car and he drove wildly, recklessly. Suddenly we were on tethered chairs that seemed to be floating like hovercrafts. His flipped, and without the gyroscopic effect of revolving around one another I was left without propulsion. The chasers were closing in now. I woke up. It was almost morning. Close enough for my purposes. I ate a bowl of cereal and drank two cups of coffee. It was 5am. It's like a sauna in our apartment. I have turned the heat up the past couple of nights in an attempt to keep the pipes from freezing. It has left me sticky and cursing, clinging awkwardly to the heat and anxiety of waking life while also submitting to the intoxication of dreaming's masterful rejection of logic and optical sense. Lately images have plagued my mind. None in particular. The concept. The formation. It seems uncanny that there is a thing somehow connected to my conception of it and that I must accept that I am both helpless and responsible for its formation. It is inaccurate. That much I can say with the utmost certainty. I use yellow liquids when I clean my kitchen. I scrub the floor with a rag. The aesthetic of the kitchen is very important to me. My morning cannot proceed properly in a messy kitchen. When I have to slide dirty dishes aside to extract the coffee maker, or when I have to use an awkwardly shaped cereal bowl my day is ruined. It is an actual disorder. I have invented a name for it that reflects its exclusivity. I will not tell you what it is. (Help) I watched a show on television about the current financial crisis. Degradation is bleak and difficult to handle in any aspect of life. To recognize an aspect of oneself as less than it once was can be devastating. Suddenly there are people forced into re-imagining themselves as impoverished. Helpless. Nearly incapable of self nourishment. When it happens on a broad, cultural scale it can be even more devastating because there is no semblance of order, no image to project as a hopeful alternative. An environment of hopelessness. Closed walls and mindfucking. Rip the pictures off of my walls and stare with moving eyeballs at the endless expanse of eggshell. The piano croons. Although I am completely ignorant of the science behind it, I can imagine the psychology. I can imagine the transformation from angst ridden, wanting something to directionless and wanting of want. There is sweat on the back of my neck. I am blinking from dry eyes. My skin has a strange pliability about it. The air is sickeningly full. And perhaps the hope lies in the dream of imagining oneself deserving of nothing. No self entitlement. No expectations. The best and most complete kind of freedom. Alternately or arbitrarily exhibited in works of brilliant art or violence. It wouldn't matter. These cities couldn't be more different. I was sitting in front of our collegiate mecca today when a girl walked up the stairs just a few feet away from me. Ultimately concerned with her posture and posterior. Ha ha, there was no one in sight! Ingrained. She was wearing crocheted white mittens, tight blue jeans, and a jacket that was bunched about her bosom like a furred suckling. Large black boots with tiny heels. Winter apparel. Walk from car to entrance apparel. Hah sexually entranced and entrenched. I watched unashamedly, part of a mutual joke--her desire self contained and mine unable to be contained. She wanted to be wanted but didn't want and I wanted to not want but wanted. The hilarious duplicity of life. I could not help but smile at my attraction to impracticality and insensibility. Is that "to ogle"?