---
title: 'happy december explosion'
date: "2005-12-17 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

four beers and i’m having the nightmare sleep. i move, i sink, i swallow--i roll over, undecided. the blankets are everywhere. the smell of dryer sheet is fading into the painful hint of sweat and nervousness. i’m waking up to a silly song coming from my telephone. i’m waking up to a list of miss calls from unknown numbers--debt collectors, probably. i’m waking up with bloodshot eyes, rubbing them in front of the mirror and twisting my lips into the right side of my face and then the left. i’m warming up my face for the day’s fake smiles and grimaces. pants, jacket, shoes, and through the front door and into the cold. brisk, audible, and the world is quiet this morning. beating back the sunlight over the mistakes of my unquiet bed. (oops) i’m saying good morning and paying $4.99 for a box of cereal. the markup is astonishing and paying it further. i’m backing into a jumpsuit. the woman is inaudible in her contempt for me. with her nose on her breast she announces that this is my change. this is what i get back. i’m shuffling back across the street. streets frighten me on foot. moving quickly. feeling sleepy. regretting saying "that". i think back, "hey. i have a book for you to read." i know it’s true but i haven’t figured out which book it is yet. it’s there, somewhere. somewhere in the stack of self help buddhist meditation guides and semi-explosive best sellers there is your book. it has a note inside of it. on a post it and scrawled in faux haphazardness. nothing about it is haphazard or unintentional. i wrote it for you; for glistening eyes on sunday morning. i write it as my best goodbye. i write it because letting go makes me transcendental. it makes us transcendental. i struggle with hands at the front door. a box of cereal and a bottle of gatorade. i’m thirsty. the color blue appeals to me, instinctively. some eyes are blue and some are brown. there are others but i don’t have names for them. some are so brown that they’re black. some are so black...a church pew enters my mind. back inside. i dump my coffee filter in a random bowl because i don’t want to put a new garbage bag in the can. i’m not lazy, i just hate the complexity of it. i hate the levity of it. i hate everything about it that ties me to doing it again and again until i die. i hate thinking that it will be how i remember my life-- bookended by replacing garbage bags and throwing things away. (now open for heartbreak) her(m)itage. arbi(con)trary. (hermeneutics.) slap my back.