---
title: 'Looking forward'
date: "2013-09-12 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

Older now, just a little bit, just enough that I don't have to fumble for the yellow piece of paper that declares my snipped driver's license legally binding. When a somewhat known acquaintance develops cancer and faces a high likelihood of death, it is not *unbelievable*...just sad, untimely, and unjust. My head fills with this as I fall asleep--a range of images of this individual as I have known him, shaped and mirrored by a deeply rooted sympathy, but untouched by any real understanding. Even in my panicked and uneasy mental wanderings, I can't possibly understand what it must be like to face that reality. I am inclined to react, to say "*but what about this, this, and this?*" I try to stop myself, to allow the humanity, sympathy, and affection for this individual to manifest without the presumptuousness of thinking that I could fathom--even with the most reasoned intellect, dedicated passion, and empowered suspension of disbelief--what it might be like to feel that happening inside of you. So, friend, I will permit myself only to imagine ways in which I might contribute something positive to the hours, days, weeks, and months ahead that will certainly be filled with a horror that no person should have to face. And if my protest can one day be lodged before an orchestrator or the cosmos itself, rest assured I will make it known that even miniature, temporary creatures do not deserve this. For now though, compassion and just enough words to get this out of my system. 