---
title: "a different kind of noise: part I"
date: "2008-02-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Writing', 'Life']
tags: ['sleeplessness']
---

Attempting to sleep at this moment would be absolutely pointless, in spite of my intense desire to do so. In the parking lot there is a gathering. Young men are flocked around an automobile, yelling and revving its engine. The one yells, "I KNEW YOU HAD IT WHEN I SAW THE LIGHTS C OME ON." The battery must be dead. Someone turns the car off and another one yells, "DON'T TURN IT OFF. TURN IT BAC K ON!" Doors are slamming every thirty seconds. They're yelling. It's revving. They're yelling again. The noise has become unbearable. Someone slams the hood. They're yelling. Now someone is speaking authoritatively. I'm putting on headphones and listening to hip hop just so that I don't have to hear them anymore. I want to sleep. There is a dull ache settled in the spot just behind my eyeballs. In the morning the woman upstairs will start her exercise video, the water will course through the pipes covered in nothing but an eighth of an inch of plaster, and the new person to my left will repeatedly open his or her closet door. Last week it was the sound of a vacuum cleaner running into the wall every three inches for the length of the wall. It's noise. It's humming. It's muttering. It's indiscernible. Twenty minutes? Have I gone twenty minutes without being assaulted by this insidious form of pollution? And then there's the noise in my head. You, you dear, trying to memorialize your suffering, so I say, "a toast to your suffering!" But it makes you hate me more. And I have I merely invented this noise as a way by which I might exhibit myself? No, no, it's real. Real, I'm sure of it. Since I became an adult I've not lived anywhere for even two years. Noise? Ambiance? Poverty? Mine or theirs? Let me be alone so that I can properly toast your suffering! Oh, my eloquence! I am brilliant when I speak after even just a few minutes of silence. I love dogs!

Anecdotally, my intention is not merely to wander through ideas until I stumble upon myself, but rather to exercise my ability to compare my description of something real with an idea conceived in my head. This noise! This yelling! It is a symphony (This promo belongs to Matthew Snyder). Today at work I smelled something melting. Plastic. Circuitboard. I touched my face, running my index finger around its very few distinctive features. The temperature seemed reasonable. Was I the smell? The putrid taste filled my mouth from the air (this promo belongs to Matthew Snyder). I confused the potency of the smell with taste and then touch. My senses are...were confused. Is noise always violence, a form of aggression? I cannot seem to think of it in any other way. When people speak to me I consider it an act of aggression and respond with my own covert violence. This noise, ­this noise is certainly an affront to my humanity. Mine alone! No, no. I simply do not stumble around idly in hopes of finding myself contained within an idea. It is a lie! Exclamation points and question marks? When did I start using them, you say? Well (this promo belongs to Matthew Snyder), it seems that there are two intersecting points of interpretation that leave me, incidentally, at a loss for my own genius. I have been thinking of myself fondly these days, amused at my own intelligence and autonomy. In secret I am ashamed and fragile (I am sure there is THIS PROMO BELONGS TO MATTHEW SNYDER a God!). I am certain of a certain deterioration that is both irredeemable and irreversible, akin to that independent notion of being so often "fucked". I'm fucked! That is how I usually practice saying it. Sometimes I say "I am FUC KED!" In the second instance I emphasize the word FUC KED (belongs). Face first!
