---
title: 'goodnight to my body'
date: "2005-08-05 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

…and today I said, “marvelous, but is it a personal investment? do you have some interest in the outcome?” there again, the sunlight reflected at just the right angle to irritate that uncomfortable corner of my eye, normally reserved for first, curious glances. instinctively, I flailed my hand in its path and twisted at the hips, trying with one graceless movement to lengthen the distance between us. I squeezed my eyes deep into my skull and felt the bones just above and below the socket grinding together like the unwanted guests that I’d left in subdued heaps on my couch. I slunk away to my future, unimaginable bedroom and closed the door, dropped my unwanted pants to the floor, and made a lap around the room humming an old Hank Williams tune. pinned to the wall an unaffectionate artifact of a rowdy past swayed with the gentle hum of the air conditioner; I ran my fingers across its glossy surface and thought of that day. my ears lapsed into the past and I could scarcely make out the sound of rustling from the living room as the uneasy heaps tossed and turned, unaware that slumber was a matter of stillness, and in that cursed place there was nothing at all that resembled stillness. even in those moments when nothing seemed to be moving, there was an anxious jitter to the objects and people around me, like a child trying to remain still to avoid the watchful eye of a leering parent or crazed killer. suddenly, my bedroom door opened, and I walked inside to find myself sprawled uncomfortably on a displaced mattress in the center of the room. I leaned over, kissed myself on the cheek, and mouthed the words, “farewell, good friend.”