---
title: 'admission'
date: "2010-08-17 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
---

over the past several days and weeks I have had to make several sobering admissions to myself. I have tried not to focus on my past here because I do not want to let it consume me. the future will exist whether I am wrapped up in the past or not. however, it's time to bleed a little bit. when beth and I separated many months ago I did not have any idea that it was an end. it sounds foolish to say, but I believed her when she said *I will wait for you*. I've heard this line many times in my life. almost always it has been a lie. I thought it was part of our story. the thing that I'd hoped she would wait for was the kind of self improvement that I knew I needed to make in order for us to succeed. I have a long history of allowing my depression, anxiety and insecurity to interfere with the formation and longevity of significant relationships. this situation was particularly difficult in that it required a person with extreme confidence and sense of self. most often I retreated in fear, deluded into thinking that autonomy was the way by which I would survive. coupled with circumstances and external contributions, this produced a toxic environment in which no one would have survived for very long. I freaked out and made a radical choice.  
  
I did not think it was a permanent choice or that on august 16th we would share our final words. even months ago when I conceded that I had to continue living my life, I harbored a subterranean delusion that our story had not ended, that we were not painfully working our way through the superfluous and unnecessary epilogue. for beth that story meant nothing. she started another just as one would pick up the next in the *nancy drew *series. no more anticipation or expectation. impasse equaled end. *why this girl?* I don't know. I don't think it matters. it was intangible and exhibited in the way that we existed inside of the same space.  
  
I am happier now. part of it is that I am on medication. the other part was that I realized a conceptual flaw in the way that I understood human interaction. I conflated *love* and *happiness*, or at least I perceived that they were formed by the same means. that is to say, I thought that both were things that *happened* to a person. I realized that while I still consider this true for love, happiness is very rarely a state that just happens to you irrespective of your engagement. it is psychology, it is practice, it is acting calmly and employing the *love* that has happened to you in a judicious manner. now I am happier, more capable and curious about my environment and the people in it. I am a better person. it is the transformation that needed to happen. the tragedy is that beth did not wait around to see it. perhaps our story was that simple and unrewarding for her that it could end with nothing more than, *I found someone else.* ultimately, I suppose, that is how my story will end too. but she will always be *her* and for better or worse, part/most/all (unquantifiable) of me will always be *hers.*  
  
*I am done thinking that this is an unfair burden.* I was angry for a long time that I would have to live my life bound to this person who has erased my meaning. it doesn't bother me that much anymore. it is part of me. it is the reason that I have something that she made tattooed on my ring finger. anyone who accepts me now will just have to understand that I am not entirely obtainable. I will give everything that I have to give, but part of me has already been given away and cannot ever be returned.