---
date: "2008-03-30 12:00:00"
template: post.html
title: 'patterns: part I'
---

It's midnight. I'm not tired. A nap. coffee. and I'm clicking and brooding. scheming. figuring out ways to make money. generally speaking, I'd say it's time for a fundraiser. the regularity of the silence is its most astonishing quality. more frequently "silence" is merely shorthand for a state of unreceptiveness, a reduction and synthesis of minor sounds into "noise". ha ha. just as I worked through those words there was a sound of glass breaking outside, bottles being thrown on top of other bottles to be transported out of sight, out of mind. I finish reading. I finish writing. something slithers sickly down my arm...or is it capillary action? am I being drawn by droplets into the external world? I'm hungry again. I should be looking to the stars and trying to piece together a few beautiful words to have infinitely at my disposal. sleepnation. did I think that from the jewel case of some cd I lost ten years ago? or was it dreamnation? damnation? I'm not sure. there are snippets of information and I cannot clearly distinguish those that I have produced from those that I have absorbed. I have this habit of absorbing speech patterns from those people around me. ways of pronouncing letter combinations or particular phrases. most often those that only fill space and convince the recipient of a lack of aversion. 

it's three a.m. a different night. spliced together imaginings. it begins, I had a lover named bizarro. the wind is howling. I expect it holds the inconsequential explanation for my inability to sleep properly. as soon as I start putting words to textpad the face of my consciousness begins its rapid erosion. now full of silence. now kind of blue. I was in the bathtub for an hour reading virginia woolf. on the inside cover of the book the previous owner wrote, "to be completely honest w/you. I had a very difficult time understanding virginia wolfes style of writing. in order to comprehend better, I tried to put myself in her positions + imagine the characters. I". it ends there. I wondered, who writes on the inside cover of a book "to be completely honest with you..." was the book a gift? who gives a gift that they fail to comprehend? I imagine, here is an object of which I understand nothing that will certainly inflict upon you some impression or another, but I am not the least bit concerned that it might facilitate miscommunication. impossible! so then it is left to reason that it was written precisely anonymously, precisely to create this tension of the anonymous stranger. but then she­and it must certainly be a she (ha ha!)­seems so utterly naive, almost imbecilic, incapable of completing even this simple confession. but this, too, is impossible. in fact, would it not be just the most clever trap to ensnare the arrogant male reader into condescension? perhaps there is another note later in the book chastising this necessarily male reader for his impression of the innocent, young reader who was forced into abandoning her book before she could understand it, before she could even properly inscribe her ignorance. when I was younger I contained a love affair entirely within the pages of tolstoy's anna karenina. it was my journal and I must have sounded like a complete fool. "oh, she is my ____ and I her ____," I wrote. how stupid! how profanely stupid! whatever became of that book? that record of my ignorance and insolence? it is clear from the space on my bookshelf that I no longer have it in my possession. so necessarily, as I am not one to destroy books, it exists somewhere, the love affair unfinished and my ignorance and innocence unwavering. 

it's morning now. I slept soundly for a few hours. I felt almost dead, the texture of my skin against the bedsheets felt almost like a corpse. death, perhaps, will be an explosion, and only distinguishable from sleep in that it happens all at once, forever. the star tribune reports this morning that men in the 35-44 age range are killing themselves at a 4 to 1 ratio versus women, but that women are attempting to kill themselves at a 4 to 1 ratio versus men. say, for instance that four men commit suicide successfully. this means that one woman will have succeeded, but fifteen others will have attempted it. I wonder how many people I encounter on a daily basis who have been this close to death. 

I can tell that it's going to rain. or snow. or storm. the dull ache in my wisdom tooth affords me knowledge that the weather people almost fail to fully grasp.