---
title: 'click discard'
date: "2009-10-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

Life is happening. In many ways it is the same. I wake up in the morning and I mix honey nut cheerios with all bran and drink either one or two cups of coffee. The clouds and humidity seem ceaseless. The summer. The brutal, mind altering summer. I spend time flopping around feverishly in my bed like I have been stricken with disease. Have I? Years ago my mind changed. I started to view experience as something not to be evaluated by its net gains. I realized that I could not accurately perceive gains and losses. I started reading philosophy, pecking at it like an un-shy, hungry bird. Bits and pieces. Oh, this makes sense. Etc. I thought, "Oh, later I can un-decide this philosophy and take up a more traditional perspective." I could once again place value on the acquisition of things and the safety-net of growing old amidst the constant circus- like distractions of a home full of things. Deconceptualizing brought me too far. To the brink of madness. In my fervor I began to understand something more important: conceptions cannot be deconceived. At first I hated this. I wanted to be able to manipulate things. After "deciding against belief" I wanted the comfort, the ease of "deciding in favor of belief." It could not be. I remember when I was an argumentative college student. "Descartes is brilliant in his destruction of concepts, but trying to build on top of that nothingness is bullshit." Classic low-grade, entry-level philosophy student. I beamed with arrogance and pride at something that I dreamt had not been previously conceived. I expected to stun and stupefy. I didn't. But later I still thought that way. "You cannot destroy everything and then expect to build something solid in its place." So too it has been with my life reformations. It is rare that I find something that fits within my remaining concepts. (I still maintain certain premises, that while fundamentally tenuous, contain enough certainty within a given microspace to be considered true and valuable) However, as I've grown older I have continued to shed concepts. False. Worthless. I am certainly depressed, but not in the psychologically vigorous way of the adolescent. I do not want attention. I do not think that a single corollary could bring fruition to some master design. It is not that simple. So I think. "Ruminate". Pick at my memories and pray for a bigger beard. Realize suddenly that I look much older than I did six years ago. I like it, but it will go too far. The lines that I now perceive as adding detail and definition will sink too far. Sag. Grow sloppy. I will one day not be able to walk up stairs taking two at a time. I will touch twice as many stairs. A small change, but significant. And I want something in which I can invest my remaining humanity. Forever. Something to be buried and live forever, even if buried secretly underneath dirt and never again seen. Not valued or thought of often except by those who buried it together. (Alone) The fluidity of memory. When I sit on my new toilet I feel as if I am slipping off to the left. I think it is not level. The floor is not level. Will I remember this? Will I selectively file this memory to represent this part of my life? Mind control. I look into her eyes and think, "Can't you control how you feel?" But I can't either. Some days I wake up and I don't feel like anything. Today I did not feel like anything. I rode my bike. I liked it. the mist felt nice. I spent the rest of the day wet, sticky and at a loss for words. Parts of it I want to control, but as soon as I can control them, I realize that I shouldn't be the one manipulating. Pulling strings. Making things happen because my accumulation of now and memories says that this is correct, that I have perceived clearly in this instance the essential position of this moment. Tomorrow I might wake up and feel needy and jubilant. The next day I might wake up and feel depressed because I do not feel like I did the previous day. I think, "It is wrong that I cannot be how I want when I wake up." I convince myself that my mind is simply not working hard enough to make what I want of itself. But this is not true. I cannot deconceptualize (I can deconceptualize). Click Discard.