---
title: "a description of my run: part I"
date: "2007-08-28 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Running
tags: 
---

Mile the first: stretched my arms behind my torso and produced a sound, scarcely audible, something between a low growl and a purr. The weather did not immediately offend my senses, but after no more than a few strides the colorless air began to press heavily against the dull sheen of my skin. The usual muscles began to tense and I perspired heavily. Mile the second: piss in some bushes. Mile the third: turned on to Pelham and in the distance saw another runner. Rotund, blond, wearing a baseball cap but no earphones. I wanted to catch up and say hello but the elusive Pelham water stop beckoned. Rounded the building searching for an industrial outcropping, an unlikely sintered mess of weather stained pulp that would trickle forth a foul, misty runoff. After missing it on the first attempt I gave up and continued, safe in the fact that the Summit water stop was not far away. Mile the fifth: a man with a brand new Giant OC RC 2 lifted his back wheel off of the ground and gave it a spin, peering curiously at the perfectly aligned thing. No helmet, very few accessories. New to bicycling. In my mind I complimented him. In reality we said nothing, only eyed each other nervously as we took our turns at the fountain. Mile the sixth: spotted an older woman with a turquoise top and a knee brace off on the horizon. I assumed that I would catch up with her quickly, but as I reached Ford I had not made up any ground at all. Mile the seventh: unbelievably fit Asian woman pushing a baby stroller. She pushed it forward, caught up to it, and pushed it again. I'm continually amazed by the number of very fit women I see running with baby strollers on the river road. Many of them run faster than I do without a baby stroller. Mile the ninth: there were flowers and a picture of a young man attached to a tree overlooking the river. As I grew nearer the area of the bridge collapse there was an atmosphere of restlessness and a sick ambiance of perversion and death. Mile the eleventh: as I descended the long hill near the U of M campus I could make out the vague form of a rollerblader with ski poles. For a moment I thought I could discern her form coming nearer to me before it seemed to drift off into the distance again. This phenomena was repeated several times before we met on the lower slopes of the hill. As I passed her I thought to myself that I'd never seen such a look of determination. Her teeth were clenched and she was testing the tensile strength of her poles. I wondered whether this was her plan for the day-­to try to make it up the hill­-or if she was doing some kind of weird interval ski-roller training. She was traveling no more than a couple hundred each iteration. After passing her I reached the water stop along the lower part of the river with its strangely placed fountain, situated in front of an uneven rock stairway. I envisioned a silver goblet waiting for me. Mile the twelfth: gawkers were situated along the railing of the campus bridge gazing off into the distance with a look not of mourning or agitation, but of sick excitement. Mile the thirteenth: nearly ran into a girl despite the fact that we were making very obvious eye contact a dozen feet before our paths intersected. I could not understand it and thought perhaps the dehydration was screwing with my senses. Mile the fourteenth: watching my feet and suddenly felt eyes on me. Look up to see a woman on a three speed bicycle. As soon as she was discovered she averted her eyes and swerved her bicycle. I could not decide if she was looking at me because I was suffering, because she found me out of the ordinary, or because there was nothing better to look at. In any case, I wanted to stop and tell her that she should not be ashamed to look at other people. Mile the fifteenth: something tightened in the lower part of my hamstring and I had difficulty controlling the motion of my left leg. Mile the sixteenth: I could not help but notice the enormous wooden dowel or spear in her hair. She was talking on her cellphone and I kept expecting the dowel and the cellphone to meet with catastrophic results. Mile the seventeenth: exhausted, shuffle homeward.
