---
title: 'First veloviet ride of the year'
date: "2012-03-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Cycling
tags: ['group ride', 'veloviet']
---

Saturday and its outrageously nice weather brought a return to the road bike for many. I was one of those people. The Veloviet cycling team had its first "unofficial" ride of the year from Pho Tau Bay in Minneapolis. We've been working with Veloviet for the past three years now, and have come on board as an official sponsor in the past year. I've enjoyed both working and riding with them, and was delighted to find out that the first ride of the year would start so near my house. After hastily throwing a bike together on Friday, I was ready. Coworker, friend, and general *goodguy* Kai met me at my house, and we made the three mile journey to the start of the ride. Quang was uncharacteristically late, so I had some time to get re-acquainted with some of the people with whom I've either never ridden, or done so sparingly. After a brief photo opportunity, we were on our way. The first part of the ride was very docile. It was a good opportunity to chat and re-acclimate to the nuances of riding a road bike in a group. Once we reached the river road the pace began to quicken. It was fun and exhilarating. We looped into Mendota and up Highway 13, where the real ride began. Jim, Quang, and Bart were clearly ready to have a little fun and test the spring fitness. I took it easy and just followed. There was no sense upping the ante before reaching Ohio and Ramsey. Of course, it didn't really matter, as there were plenty of other riders who were ready and able to *throw down* before we reached the climbs. Although I've been riding without a cycling computer, I can guesstimate that our speed through Lilydale was 28-30mph. It felt crazy compared to the plodding pace that I've established over the winter. I just followed. We reached Ohio. Bart seemed crazy strong, so I decided to follow his wheel and hope for the best. I picked the right horse and he dragged me to the top before Quang had a chance to unleash his frenzied attack. It was surprising, but I was feeling great. I expected the combination of not enough time on the bike, too much running, and nursing my wisdom teeth for the past week and a half would make it a difficult ride. We reached Ramsey, climbed it at a reasonable pace without any real shenanigans, and returned to Minneapolis via Summit. It was a beautiful day to be on the bike, made only better by riding with a great group of people.