---
title: "a collection of thoughts: part xv"
date: "2007-06-09 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
tags: 
---

It's saturday morning. The likelihood of today being unpleasant is rather high. Saturdays include explaining the virtues of the hybrid to people who will ride such a short distance and with such infrequency that their bicycle of choice could be just about anything. They definitely do not see it as a device capable of impressive function, elegant form or titillating fun. I have grown to very much dislike Saturdays for this reason. Last night I watched half of Casablanca before falling asleep­-not because I was not enjoying the film, but because I had not slept particularly long or well the previous night. Since completing college, by my measure anyway, my body has become accustomed to sleeping at least eight hours at a time. The good people or robots at netflix opted to send me casablanca even though it was not in my queue. I have been checking the mailbox feverishly ever since, hoping that they or it might select more movies for me. R- pointed out that it might be a poor reflection of character that I should be so predictable in my tastes. I replied that I was nonetheless flattered, and hoped that its mechanical affections might never cease...or something along those lines. I'm prone to interpolation. Beginning next Thursday I will embark on an epic journey to Duluth. My dreams of completing a marathon this year have been put to rest by a nagging foot injury, but I'm still going to allow the time and destination as reason enough to take a vacation. I'll be riding my crosscheckstracycle and carrying supplies to make the journey as slowly as I prefer, camping along the way if necessary. My current plan is to make the trip up in one very long day, and the return trip in two more leisurely days. The distance appears to be about 150 miles in each direction, with ample opportunity to extend it by getting lost or stopping for food. The weather forecast for the weekend has changed dramatically over the past few days, so I will just assume that it's going to rain.
