---
title: 'everything I do is awkward'
date: "2010-03-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

it was such a beautiful day that I decided to skip running and spend my time bicycling. I didn't really have a good route in mind, so I started with a river loop. I had a tailwind and was cruising quite happily, covering a much greater distance in the first hour than I would have expected. I thought about trying to make it a century, but I wasn't feeling that into it and took an unpleasant turn north along johnson parkway. I was feeling tired and lonely so I stopped at the bike shop. on the way home I took the greenway. I ended up awkwardly behind a rider going at about the same speed as me. I tried to hang back far enough that it was apparent that I wasn't drafting him, but he kept looking back at me. I said hello. he either didn't respond or his reply was muffled by the wind. at an intersection I passed him and increased my pace slightly. I realized perhaps a mile later that he was drafting off of me. okay. a little while later he went by and I tucked in behind him. it was particularly strange because he wasn't saying anything to me. when I went to the front again I said, "beautiful day, eh?" it was about the least awkward thing I could think of saying. it was the only time he replied to anything I said: "yeah." the speed was 20-21mph regardless of who was at the front, so it didn't seem like one of those secret competitions that a guy occasionally gets sucked into on multi use trails. no, it seemed like we were quietly and weirdly working together to go faster. if I had been riding alone I would have been going maybe 18mph given the windy conditions, but because I could take a rest I was able to ride faster. I've never experienced that kind of passive cooperation without conversation. odd.

I think I'm going to enter some randonneuring events this year. I feel like I should do something with all of the riding that I've been doing. something vaguely competitive, but without the machismo of teams, categories, and fifty-three tooth chainrings.