---
title: 'Our trip to REI'
date: '2013-09-30 20:36:27'
template: post.html
---

Late last week Michelle and I decided that we needed to go to REI. Ostensibly, *we did*, but only to return a defective headlamp that could be returned anytime in the next eleven months. So really, we didn't. Despite the fact that I am a prolific time-waster, it usually falls under one of the following categories: justifiable by existential angst, justifiable by existential delight, frivolity masked by impulsiveness/unexpectedness, or admittedly self-serving behavior interwoven with identity in a way suggesting *necessariness*. Biking to REI in Bloomington during rush hour did not fit neatly into any of those categories. While I always enjoy a good bike ride with Michelle, doing so at a time of day when maniacs drive with a special ferocity reserved for the return trip, and to a destination that does not offer remarkable bike infrastructure, situated itself somewhere between mildly unappealing and loathsome. It was, admittedly, more appealing than being a passenger in an automobile during the same journey.

So I planned an insane route rife with too many turns, terrible roads, and questionable directness. Mind you, I've ridden sensibly to REI in Bloomington. It is within my capacity as a human being to do this thing we were attempting, but because of some short-circuiting of my brain, or a general predisposition towards being decisive at the expense of being sensible, I made a mess of it. Furthermore, we needed to return a different dumb thing to IKEA, so riding through Fort Snelling would have been both more pleasant and less prone to backtracking. But we didn't do that. We did something else entirely.

I cannot even describe it, except to say that we zigzagged our way across the city of Minneapolis, bouncing around like an idiotic pinball at the whim of my flippant hand signals--"*Let's go this way, now this way, and now this way!*" We decided to try for REI first, and then return to IKEA where we would conclude our business, admit defeat, and take the lightrail back to Franklin station. Of course, it was late now, and we were hungry, so we abandoned the abandonment plan and concocted the new plan of making our way to a nearby Indian restaurant. Here, we would order food for three people, and then proceeded to waste all of the money that I didn't waste on the only pair of hiking pants that were not impossibly stupid on dinner (...and were consequently impossibly expensive).

So, I had no hiking pants, Michelle felt ill, it was late, and we were deep in the suburbs. To expedite our return to the city, we opted to take our chances on American Blvd. It was late enough that traffic was light. However, another problem emerged as we approached Portland: a semi-circle of police officers had their guns drawn and pointed in our direction. Of course, there was some kind of rogue motor vehicle between us, but it didn't make me feel any better that only three lanes of traffic and a lawless individual stood between us and a barrage of gunfire. We made a hasty departure, passing by Cirque Du Soleil and finally making it to the light rail station. And that, friends, is how you make accomplishing nothing really adventurous! 