---
title: "what next?: part I"
date: "2008-03-18 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I woke up to what, for me, was an unexpected amount of snow. The weather people may or may not have been predicting a couple inches of overnight accumulation, but I stopped listening to them earlier in the winter after many erroneous but boisterous proclamations of impending blizzards. Since I've switched both the crosscheck and the xtracycle to slick tires, I had no option except for the Pugsley. This was fine as I haven't had much opportunity to ride the Pugsley recently. Fairview hadn't been plowed at all, so even the Pugsley was pushed near its limits slogging through the very wet, very heavy, and very slippery snow. I stayed out of the car tracks as the road is rather busy during morning rush hour. I finally started to understand the tendency to load the front of a snow bike with stuff rather than the rear. The combination of my bodyweight and the weight of my pannier caused the rear end to sink into the snow while the front end felt too squirrelly. The experience was short lived as everything after Fairview had been plowed. There was still a slippery mess of melting snow that had been compacted into ice, but hardly any snow to speak of. 
 
It's now the twelfth day of my illness. Each day for the past five I have started my day expecting to feel better than I did. I have improved somewhat, but I still have a cough and my lungs are not functioning even remotely as well as they did just two short weeks ago. Webmd indicates that acute bronchitis clears up in the average person in two to three weeks, meaning that I have somewhere between two and nine days left. I have read elsewhere that the effect on the lungs can last for many weeks beyond this. Most likely this will end my chance of running Grandma's in June. I have already lost two weeks of time and fitness, and I don't foresee myself being able to run for another few weeks. That puts me well into April and will essentially mean that I work with an eight week training program, roughly half of most beginner and intermediate programs. I scan through the what-ifs in my mind: what if I had decided to continue living by myself? What if I'd eaten different food? What if I'd washed my hands another time or not run my hand through my beard? What if I'd taken another shower or grabbed one of the other three WII controllers? What if my tax return had arrived and I spent the money on the necessary tests to prove myself worthy of health care? In the end, though, things are as they are. I can't feel bad about this marathon because I did everything I needed to prepare. My plan is to decide by this weekend so as to allow time to cancel accommodations. Then the what-ifs that matter. What next? What do I change?