---
title: "32×15 is not a good plowing through the snow gear: part I"
date: "2007-12-01 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Cycling
tags: 
---

I took the Redline out for its maiden winter voyage. There's maybe three inches of snow on the ground so I figured it would be a fairly easy endeavor. Fuck it if I wasn't wrong! Going down Fairview was easy enough, but once I turned on to Roselawn and into the twenty mile per hour wind I found a much different scenario. All of the snow had drifted to the western edge of Fairview so there was very little for me to ride through, but on Roselawn I intersected the drifts perpendicularly. By the time I reached Snelling I realized two things: my gear was much too large and I wanted to go home. I took the frontage road to Larpenteur, and proceeded home. The most difficult thing about winter riding is finding a line without moving too far into traffic. I was sort of pleased with the Redline but still lust after a Pugsley. The Pugsley doesn't require a line. If you're strong enough to propel the bike forward the four inch tire is probably wide enough to not slip out and twist you face first into the ground. My Nokians were absolutely pointless in the sand-like drifts. They will be nice later when things start to melt and re-freeze, but at the moment they're just a slightly too narrow tire that weighs slightly too much. running in the snow: part I I forgot how much fun it is running in the snow. The world greeted me--­soft, pallid and abandoned. We embraced. The snow flakes falling gently on my back and shoulders, my footfalls landing quietly just above the earth's surface. It was eighteen degrees with a 14mph wind. For the first part of the run the wind was at my back and I felt wonderful, like I had pressed the pause button on the rest of the world. The wind greeted me as I turned south and it was only then that I was reminded that it was winter and our first snow storm. I squinted through the icy daggers that now seemed to drop from the sky like kamikaze pilots, laughed, pulled my cap over my eyebrows and staggered forward. I stopped behind a building at the state fair grounds and tried to melt some of the ice that had started to accumulate on my face. A few hundred more yards and I turned north. The wind was at my back again. It was beautiful.
