---
title: "the rain: part I"
date: "2007-10-20 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Life', 'Cycling']
tags: 
---

Estimating solely with imagination I can say that the rain has been relentless for the last two months, villainously ceasing only to disallow psychological acclimation. The ride to Joey and David's seemed particularly perilous last night, with scads of traffic dangerously slicing through the blowing rain. I was unprepared, thinking that the slight gap in the radar would allow for safe transport as it had during the afternoon's errand running. The degree of wrongheadedness in that thinking quickly became apparent as our promised tailwind became a headwind and the rain droplets became larger and more frequent. I felt invisible, a bubble wafting through the air, destined to be pierced by a slight variation in barometric pressure or the kitten like pawing of a child足fragile, delicate, helplessly bound, edging silently along the puddled edges of a maddening speedway. I've become aware of an offroad trail that runs along New Brighton Boulevard and could potentially make for a less stressful journey northward. It is out of the way and will certainly double the length of the trip, but nonetheless provides promise of an exciting alternative to the poorly thought out roads of the northern suburbs. We stopped at Subway. Upon leaving the rain stopped and the very skies mocked us with their obsidian twinkle. I did not laugh but meant to, and in my memory now inject pointed, boisterous, maniacal cackling. Beautiful fucking destroyer! 

Today it was the wind. Fierce wind that made me cower childishly, felt upon my breast like the anxious ferocity of partially developed happenstance. I watched Planet Terror足the Robert Rodriguez contribution to the Grindhouse double feature. I expected to be thoroughly disappointed. Firstly because I've been intending to see it since previews were floating around youtube; secondly because it was split in half for DVD release; thirdly because I have grown tired of Tarantino's quintessential films (ie. those that attempt nothing more than to be the most potent examples of a genre or style); and fourthly because of the aforementioned weather problems. I liked it though. Parts were utterly stupid, but the ease with which I lost myself in its momentum easily compensated for the banality. 

Now it's morning. I have made a bad habit out of starting an entry and leaving it sit until three days have passed and I have written nothing interesting. The sun has returned today and I look forward to eyeing it suspiciously from the confines of the bike shop. I would better enjoy doing something enjoyable outside, but the confinement of the saturday workday will keep me bound tightly in my rooftop prison. 

I will have two bikes that I use this winter instead of one. This decision was made unconsciously and I have danced around implementing the concept all summer long. Despite myself, I have managed to achieve what I believe to be an optimal setup. Last winter was the first time that I tried to rely entirely on a bike with a freehub and gears. This experiment resulted in multiple trashed freehubs and the occasional day spent turning the cranks three or four revolutions before the hub would engage. In total, the bike suffered much worse than the fixed gear bikes that I had used during previous winters. This winter my primary bike will again be a fixed gear. I have turned one of my two crosschecks into a flat bar fixed gear with a rack and fenders. The setup should prove ideal both in terms of function and maintenance. The ability to modulate speed without relying on handbrakes that may or may not be frozen, congealed, and/or worthless is an incredibly valuable asset. Additionally, not relying on pawls足 slathered in mostly frozen grease足to perk up and reliably do their thing will ease my mind on those coldest of days. To further situate myself I have equipped the bike with a Surly Dingle cog, meaning that I can run either a 40/20 gear or a 42/17 with the same chain and without flipping the wheel. The former will be reserved for plowing through snow as its maximum comfortable speed is perhaps 13mph. The second bike will be my xtracycle. It wil be used mostly for grocery shopping and perhaps, by virtue of its 26 wheels, days which have too much snow for the skinnier cross tires.
