---
title: 'concrete in my mouth'
date: "2005-05-27 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

Stubborn history bearing friendless WHOA fuck. Harrowing bitches in matchstick trench coats… all fucking the outside of misanthropy's skull. I have no arms and Hello to the fucking scream that's growing inside of me. GROANING. Fuck. Boots on boxes filled with leftover plots and taped with light duty FUCKING tape. Oh, for a plot! Plotless history plodding on the loins of disaster's ego, ergo death comes sooner than expected. Wanted in the vestibule for cake and diarrhea. GROUPING! PULP SUCKED FROM the fruit of every polluted mind and every unfortunate turn of the clicking hand. Sanguine. Mellifluous. Spilt outright forever uncanny in its likeness to my very own hope ridden breast, my very own contemptuous resistance. Science has no answer for the stealth with which horror and panic can overcome a stable human mind. Years spent in a miserable unconscious forming creases in the brain where you wake up and read the talking newspaper, write the electric toaster. Lit up and hanged. The mother of the swooping lines on my brow that bellow I AM OLD AND GETTING OLDER, finding with it baskets of human eggs produced in a laboratory where people like me are DEBUNKED. Hah! THE SCREAM HAS GROWN INSIDE OF ME. I feel it pressing outward against my struggling lungs. I feel my heart pressed against my ribs flattened out like a pancake and beating only once every so often. My ribs are cracking against the scream, holding it in unwillingly. It would be so much easier to let it out and free my insides of the terrible weight of it. Lit up and hanged. Debunked and forthright. Kittie in the microwave oven. Horror on the table. Lamp above the dinner table burning oil and old photos. Dusty framed photograph on the mantle; faded you and I in that only moment. Postured up like a ravenous beast. Human hands devoured by TASTE and SENSATION. SENSUALITY in the long lusted lovelorn livid emancipation! Shackles for cheerios and I am TRULY A MOTH. Ergo, the moment that I experience now, the scream that grows inside of me, are duly and unduly limitless. The festering words skimmed off the top only frothy remnants of the brew that will end all thoughts of white picket fences and caskets of pine and iron. I pour concrete in my own mouth.