---
title: "bullshit: part I"
date: "2008-02-07 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Writing']
tags: ['Reading']
---

I have decided that as of today I will no longer communicate­--oh, I will babble ceaselessly, intermittently or not at all as my whims dictate, but no longer will I attempt to convey sense or feeling. Words that begin with the same sounds, baseless repetitions, moans. Whatever. People do not actually listen to me. Instead, they do one of two things: parse my words for what they deem pertinent or concoct insinuations. I began this thread of thought at the book store last week. The girl at the counter seemed to take my posture to heart, stammering her excuses for not riding her bicycle. (See, I am certain this is my own concoction of a counter-insinuation, but since I am not making an attempt to speak sense I am at liberty to be swept away with it). More precisely I can say this: those people closest and furthest from me are almost always suspicious of me. The people who know me, except impersonally, are quick to accept what I say for its content rather than its subtext. Thus, as I become overly familiar with people the relationship becomes strained. I attribute this defect to an increased level of contrary truth telling. While intermediate relationships are sustained by consistency, personal relationships suffer the difficulty of multiple, simultaneous instances of truth. It is a matter of self discovery. For a moment I think a thing true only to further examine it and realize that it is false. Intermediate relationships hold the same repeated "truths" merely because it is of no consequence to either of us whether it is accurate, only that it is consistent. Of course, people who do not know me at all are suspicious of me because I'm shy and don't smile frequently (my teeth are quickly deteriorating and my face is lopsided). Those closest to me often hear things such as, "No, no I don't feel that way at all any longer! Perhaps I never did." At this moment they become forever fearful and apprehensive of me. We grow distant, sometimes reviving a relationship in the impersonal space just beyond our original position, but more often moving in a different direction altogether. But that is not it at all! Here is the truth: my thoughts do not come quickly and I am often inarticulate. These attributes strain the conversation to the point where the participant is so thoroughly disinterested or confused that they choose to listen only for pertinent sound bytes, instances when I string together enough words to make a piece of information. However, as my mind is subject to non-linear thought development, the response is often inaccurate, relying on words that escaped unintentionally or in a muddle. I have so far been unable to make it clear to people that I am taking them seriously or that I am speaking in earnest. This is problematic. I had a dream last night with a particular character in it to whom I have surrendered everything. But that is not the crux of the matter! The crux of the matter is the perpetual need to be unfulfilled, both through inaction and incomprehensibility. (Note: I remind any potential reader who may be scanning for particularly juicy word nuggets that I AM NOT SPEAKING SENSE) Sexuality, in fact, the priceless explanation for ninety percent of pandering, is exactly opposite of the place in which it was originally conceived. C ompetitive sexuality has become the normative form of sexual behavior, and therefore the root of passive listening. People listen to other people in an attempt to extract information about their direction, but unlike other forms of competition, sexual competition takes place much like a man looks for a quiet spot to read. So we sort of zig and zag, trying to find our footing in a marketplace that is dominated by over-exuberance and a suspension of the senses (herein the joy is replaced with conquest). Now, I evaluate with a sense of gloom, thinking, "How should I continue?" I contemplated for a moment this passage from Demons by Dostoevsky: 
 
>He was one of those ideal Russian beings who can suddenly be so struck by some strong idea that it seems to crush them then and there, sometimes even forever. They are never strong enough to master it, but they are passionate believers, and so their whole life afterwards is spent in some last writhings, as it were, under the stone that has fal en on them and already half crushed them. (30) 

And so have I become carried away with this or that idea. Pulsing sensations, passion, love, ideals, cataclysm­--from these sensations my person has been produced. I was reading the introduction to my translation of Demons, wherein it explained the choice of the title Demons rather than the previously used English translation: The Possessed. The Russian word actually refers to the Possessors rather than the Possessed. The conclusion of the translators was that the original title attempted to point to the work's people rather than its ideas, the demons which take possession of the swine. This is my inelegant paraphrase, in any case. I paused to think about this for a moment in light of the strain of thought that possessed me days ago at the book store. Principally speaking, I am without shape. I indulge an idea and it is the idea that then produces a being whose countenance varies wildly with each subsequent revision. The clothing that I wear, the words that I use, the people I know, the facial expressions I allow­they are all manifestations of the overarching idea that I have adopted for the time. Scanning my journal and looking at old photographs will attest to this. The most notable consequence of this is in a complete rethinking of suffering and memory. I have proposed at various moments that I suffer because I miss someone, that I would sacrifice anything for the opportunity to return to a particular instance in time and circumstance. However, this is not the case. I have simply chosen one idea over another. In this instance, I like the old idea better and have no better way to re-indulge than to return to it. Being as the passing of time prevents this, I am left to suffer knowing of the idea but being unable to reanimate it. But are all ideas transient? Is it my constitution that makes them so? A beautiful friend once told me that he, she or it would not fulfill that place of permanence that I so recklessly sought. I said, "bullshit."
