---
title: "root canal: part I"
date: "2008-04-01 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

As he jammed the file 2.05cm into my tooth I tried to recall whether my last root canal was this painful. Normal teeth in this position have one canal. For some inexplicable reason my tooth had two canals. The first he referred to as the lingual and the second as the buckle. I couldn't figure out if these were dentistry or military terms. In any case, one canal was 19.5mm deep while the other was 20.5mm. As he use progressively larger files in the first canal I experienced little discomfort. However, the second canal was a much different story. It felt as if there was a bend in the canal and I would cringe each time something reached the bottom of it. Later I found out that the while the nerve typically exits the canal at the bottom, mine veers wildly off to the side. Additionally, there is something on my x-ray that he couldn't identify. It didn't appear to be a third canal, but it was certainly not nothing. The plan is simply to wait and see if something awful happens. If not, then the mystery thing will go unidentified and I will get a crown in three weeks. I admire his willingness to not shield me from the fact that occasionally something baffles him. Even in the simple profession of selling and repairing bicycles I witness people inventing answers because they are too ashamed to admit that they don't know the answer. I sometimes find myself doing the same thing, both personally and professionally. So far I've made two resolutions this year: go the entire year without purchasing a new bike and spend money fixing my teeth. So far I'm doing quite well with both, so I will add a third resolution: be more open in admitting my ignorance. It can be embarrassing when locked in combat with someone who is obviously projecting an equal degree of uncertainty and downright falsity, but it will nonetheless be my objective. No more lies. 

When I got home I scrapped my planned trail run and opted to do intervals. I've been at a loss as to how to regain my lung strength, so I've been experimenting with things I normally don't do like intervals and trail running. My idea is that doing more stressful activities will raise the ceiling and allow endurance running to once again be about endurance. In any case, it was sort of fun. I'm fairly decent at sprinting, so it boosted my confidence somewhat. I don't want to overstate­I still feel like hell while running, and I've even kicked around the notion that I might have become mildly asthmatic during my illness, but my morale is slowly improving. Perhaps stubbornness can win against physical malady.