---
title: "a dim gaze: past and present"
date: "2008-12-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
tags: 
---

Will I ever again be in awe of intelligence? I wonder. I think about it as I observe strangers, repeat "and ... is your change", or even when I meet my own eyes in the storefront window. Momentarily self sabotaging. There is a romantic element to it, imagining oneself as a victim to his own atrocities. I sometimes like to pretend that I do not trivialize, marginalize, and villianize the things that people say when they think they are being clever or informative. As a teenager I had a very high IQ. Now I am sure that it is only average. My thoughts are average. There is little reason that I should be so disgusted with the primitive minds of others. I should rejoice that I am not alone, not trapped with my own thoughts every hour of the day. I do not deserve anything more. Still, I want to be enchanted. The sensation, the almost inseparable nature of the things that she said and the responses to which I could attribute no particular formation. When I dream my imagination is wild, frenzied, capable of vivid canvasses of purely intoxicating fantasy. Last night I was at a ball. Dressed well. Confident. The dream was not complicated. I was in a dining hall. I was being watched. It is of no consequence what comes next in the dream. What is important is the detail of the room. If I were to close my eyes for several hours I could not piece together anything so elaborate. Yet, in my sleeping mind the construction of this room occurred in seconds. And so too, the nature of our conversations. The delicately woven web that when gazed upon as a whole becomes truly staggering. The moaning idiot can suddenly speak freely! 

Two days later. I've scarcely left the house. Temperatures below zero and the least amount of sunlight fathomable to my l-tudinally-limited imagination. Inside, drinking tea, drumming my fingers on ceramic tiles and extricating piece by piece the ordered part of my mind. Re-ordering and re-imagining. I am making progress reading. Finally. I am now lost in the narrative, obsessed with the characters and their lives, producing resonant halos on the things of my own world. I can imagine then, that within the confines of this everything, a particular note from a particular song will at once dispel the eggshell colored hypnosis and there will be a moment of disconsolation from which I glean the following: the exact geometric shapes that comprise the space in which I exist. For instance, eight feet by ten feet, and so on. When I did leave the house it was to run an errand. I needed a part for my garage door, something that should have been replaced days before by the caretaker but for which I could not afford to wait any longer. See, the garage was unlocked, and the lack of even a handle advertised it as such. No, I would not wait any longer. I walked around menards searching for the obscure part that I needed, unwilling to attempt an explanation to any of the disinterested employees. I checked near the locks and the door handles before embarking on a journey that would cover, without prejudice, the entire space of the store. I found the part that I needed tucked away near the propped up kitchens and windows. I found it on an island display that should have been pushed over the second floor and left displayed in a broken heap near the entrance twenty feet below, a sunken wreck of merchandising. It is not important what I did or why I did it, but on the way down my eyes met another's as she removed a cart loaded with items to be stocked from the elevator. She quickly, rather intentionally averted her gaze. I did not. I wondered, "Has she looked away so purposefully and hastily because she is afraid I will ask her a question she cannot answer, or has she found me offensive in some way?" As I walked past her she turned and followed in the same direction. It bothered me that in spite of not surrendering my position we had passively changed places: she was now unobserved and I had to consider each step. It bothered me as I left, wondering what it was that had prompted her disdain. In other circumstances of time, place, and people it is a favor to turn one's eyes away so as not to shame the person being observed. Had I done something shameful? I contemplated my actions. I only sought the casual, non-committal eye contact that serves to give human characteristics to someone whose situation can lend itself to self-machination. "Hello, I am a human being and so are you."
