---
title: "a plant that died: part I"
date: "2007-11-17 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 'Writing'
tags: 
---

Tomorrow I will wake up and be consumed by hatred, she told me. Oh? Yes, I have decided that tomorrow I will be consumed by hatred. I paused, considering carefully whether I believed her. I don't believe you, I finally said. You ought to. I don't fuck around with this kind of shit. I knew it was true because it was vulgar, and in our turn vulgarity was the best, most terrifying type of truth. It was morning. I called in sick to work so that I could do something special for her on her last day before being consumed by hatred. The perfect idea struck me: I would buy her a plant. The gesture occurred to me on a whim, but the more that I thought about it the more it transformed into something profound and majestic. The first evidence was this: so long as the transfer of the plant occurred on the final day before consumption­--and not after the transformation--­the plant would exist as living objectivity on each side of her existence. She certainly could not find a way to enact hate on the houseplant, after all hate was subordinate to the hate response. Human beings are highly sensitive to the impetus of hate and cannot resist projecting a response. This may occur subtly, so much so that it is only a smell or a grimace; but it is nonetheless significant. The plant, however, would remain oblivious to this stimulus and therefore become merely present in the space vacated by her higher faculties. Secondly, it would make her think of me a priori, as it were. 

Now. I saw her the next day and she was completely filled with hatred. It was as if we had never exchanged anything except insurance information after a crash that had been entirely my fault. No such crash had happened, but I could not help but feel that I should offer to buy her a new windshield or something. So she was consumed with hatred. There was nothing I could do and after some amount of pathetic wriggling I gave up and never spoke to her again (she had been gone long before I stopped speaking). To my surprise I later learned that the plant had died rather tragically under her care. So tragically, in fact, that it was not without some suspicion that she intentionally killed it, depriving it of the simple sunlight and water it needed to survive. This, of course, happens to every person in his or her lifetime, but for it to happen so quickly, to something that should have drawn notice if only for its unfamiliarity, was striking. I immediately suspected that she had murdered our plant so as to erase that liaison between her living and dead selves. I set my subjunctive mood to fucking pissed off. I gauged the seriousness of the idea based on its vulgarity and found that it fit nicely.

I woke up the next day and I was fucking pissed off. I wrote her an angry later full of sentences that ended in exclamation points. It did not matter at all to me that I had become "pretend" or as she pronounced it, "preposterous". I quickly invited everyone I knew to meet at a nearby Denny's where we sat down and refused to order anything. You can't not order shit! the waitress screamed at me. I smiled. She was beautiful like blood dripping from a wound. Slut! I yelled back. It was the most vulgar thing that I could think of at the time. I didn't want to encounter her physically in any way. I wanted her to exist as a series of flawed ideals, a progression from beginning to end noted in instances of unreturnability. She calmed herself and spoke very clearly, You are no longer welcome here. We left Denny's and I realized that I was by myself. Sh- had not come, nor had Winnipeg Jill, nor had anyone else. I fastened some type of ribbon to my breast and went inside of the nearest coffee shop, hoping that the appearance of supporting a cause associated with ill fastened ribbons might yield a free cup of coffee or at least mild conversation. I asked the barista if she would have sex with me. She said that she would not so I explained the story of the plant and asked the question again. She still said no, so I asked her for a cup of coffee. It is amazing what people will give you as an alternative to something they certainly will not give you. Imagine­--she would have given me a free cup of coffee under a variety of circumstances. In fact, she was so little opposed to the idea that to list the possible outcomes that would have resulted in a free cup of coffee would be both tedious and entirely fruitless. To make her understand that she was not opposed to this notion (because her immediate response due to long-standing-fashion would be to disallow my cup of coffee) I needed to illustrate something that was attached to only one or two possible outcomes. In the spectrum of infinity one and two are very small numbers. Once she realized this she was mine.

I sat down and she took off her apron and sat across from me. I am in the universe. She cocked her head to the side perhaps ten or twelve degrees and looked at me with a slight, though curious frown. We stood up at the same time and walked to the door together. 
