---
title: "The lost month: part I"
date: "2008-03-23 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

March has been a lost month. I look at google calendars and there is simply a void where nothing exists, a time and place where I could have been dead or alive and distinguished little difference. I have run no more than a few miles. Illness has kept me about the apartment, lurking in the shadows, surreptitiously piecing together momentos of lives lived and lost­--both my own and others. Stranger still is that in my confinement I have not completed a single book. I am nearing the end of The Idiot, but I don't recall the last time it took me so long to complete a book that I didn't simply put back on the shelf. I have been reading, just slowly and almost in a stupor. I have reread the same page three times because I could not understand the words. Then my tooth started hurting. At first it was hardly any different from the regular tooth pain that I encounter. But then it became worse--­swollen and infected. I prayed in disbelief for salvation. I watched the sky for shades or indigo or even the slightest sign that I might use as an excuse to begin thinking in a way that is already wedded to the most sacred of my inner workings. But how to proclaim such a thing? And this, on a day when so many pretend to disbelieve in disbelievers, while steadfastly resolving not to look at the object of their belief. It is as if a sick funhouse mirror whose false reflections become the root of being. Characteristically, I fall into this material void, this den of atheists and the diseased, skin pale and free of false pigment. In this month of loss I have devolved into a being of essence who­--freed from material consequence­--is at liberty to think in the least fashionable, the least sensible and most delirious ways. I have spoken at length to apparitions conjured by my mind and studied in pictures those nightmares that I refuse to have in the night time. Saturday night we were going to go camping. A sick deathly trudge into the wet and the cold, without light or sanctity­--dark, delirious and mad. Ha ha ha! And how was it that I was the last to break from this ill fated plan? Had I not the sense or perhaps too great of an opinion of myself? Or perhaps the most or least to live for of all of them? I don't know. I don't know. I feel the infection dying inside of me. Its last breath, and this fatigued body will scarcely know the difference in a week, in a month when it new afflictions are the direst, the most penetrating. I latch on to a thought in this void, this three weeks of being nearest death, its bosom friend. Suddenly I find myself speaking and wondering if I'm serious. Is it merely a lark? A good time to be had? Execution of a language that has nothing left to convey? How tired I have become of this language and its confinement. The most beautiful people I have known have spoken to me such that I understand, such that our words tangle up in one another and speak of love and pain and life and death. But I am so tired of it now. I want a new tongue where I can speak like a child. A poorly schooled adult is not a child. Missing a comma, dangling a preposition--­these aren't the marks of innocence that frees a person from the insufferable bondage of their own human mind. 

In the void of these three weeks there has been a collage of days--­bright, sunny, warm, cool, snowy. It is as if I look from the window and any amount of time could have passed since the last time, any kind of thing could be spotted. No longer do I expect familiarity, a sense that I am wound up in creation run wild but perfectly orchestrated like dew and sunrise. 

The snow. The madness. And on the way to my sister's house on this, the day of all days to become a christian I found myself looking upon the dull quiet slumber of machines. 

It's been erased from google maps, deleted from our collective consciousness. 

The flakes of snow were beautiful­--large, benign and of the most interesting shapes and sizes. I took a new route through north Minneapolis. I feared the roads of the suburbs. I feared the tight spaces where churchgoers and the deranged would squeeze me to my death. So I braved the poor and the ill at ease, going to their own churches and praying for simple things like food and shelter. I loved them. I loved that they instantly hated me, that they felt betrayed at my very presence, but that in the end they would forgive me and come to think of me as one of their own. The mildly deranged. Without orchestration and the modern conveniences of machines. Except...except...mapping software, GPS NAVIGATION, LC D MONITORS, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION, BREAST FEEDING, DEODORANT...and so on. It was marvelous. I will show my face again. 

Finally the sun came out and I took a ubiquitous river shot. Except I like this one. Except I stopped particularly because I couldn't.