---
title: 'dusting off the pugsley...my legs'
date: "2010-02-25 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

for the past three weeks or so I have been commuting on the tricross, so the pugsley has been taking a much deserved break in the basement. during the day the sun melts the snow and at night it freezes. on the pugsley this would mean either getting covered in slop or falling on my face. four inch tires are wonderful in the snow, but they offer few advantages on ice. even the skinniest, most under-equipped studded tire is a better solution. however, there are still places where fat tires reign supreme. I hadn't been to wirth in a while, so I figured with the low morning temperatures it would be perfect. the snow would be hard and fast, and moving slowly in the woods is a good way to keep warm. the first part of the trail was a little bit dicey. it was apparent that people were trying to ride it without the proper equipment. it's also the side that faces south. the combination meant that it was icy, rutted and in one spot a muddy swamp (where I honorably dismounted and walked around the fragile exposed trail).
after the first section the rest of the trail was in much better condition. it was still difficult compared to the pristine conditions in january, but definitely worth the trip. I did a second lap and then went home.

lately I have started running regularly again. last thursday I did about eight miles, and then six and a half on sunday. the reinvestment comes for three reasons: boredom, nothing nurtures cardiovascular health like running, and I'm in a spirited weight loss competition with beth. realistically, I probably won't lose more than six or seven pounds, but I'm still trying. my weight hasn't fluctuated more than that amount in either direction since my weight lifting frequency plateaued (a kind way of saying that it's been a while since I lifted weights consistently). I could do better with my diet, but it's often a challenge to maintain energy levels riding 25 miles per day while mixing in other activities like running and maintaining a full time job. there are days when I eat my lunch too early in the day and limp home a lifeless zombie.

last saturday I had my best weekend ride of the year. surprisingly, it was not with my usual riding friends. dave and I rode down to frostbike. it was a lovely, wonderful day and I enjoyed his company immensely. I detoured to saint paul with him so it ended up being fifty miles. not my longest ride of the year, but certainly one of the most enjoyable. this sunday looks like it's going to be another day spent riding alone. I'm looking forward to spring and the possibility of coaxing some of the work people out for rides. we'll see. if anyone reads this blog and wants to be my friend, let me know.