---
title: 'borrowed in the dark like first loves'
date: "2005-08-01 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

"why would a celestial moon witch date me?" it starts. and if i live in the dark, or in the bathtub, or in the click of the receiver as i begin to wonder, "wait, how did that go?" and i'm tempted to call back and ask directly, "how tired do i become on your poor ears?" so we'll trade phones. perhaps it is my phone that makes me tired on delicate ears; that i sound quite plainly, wrong, on the other end. i try to rub lotion on my own back and i wonder if i should just post on craigslist and ask someone to do it for me. but no one will answer, not even the creeps and the perverts. there will be only silence and i will be lonely for even the slanted words of the fellow who is just looking for something to disturb him, just hoping that one day he'll think, "ugh." i need a nice girl who will tell me to stop whining about my sunburn and threaten me with kitchen knives until we pass out together on my almost mattress thinking about how we've not got a thing left to do. and, oh, good god! i do most things with a microtilt. and i only had change enough for two loads of laundry and stomach enough for only one kind of happening. it's been a pretty good day. i woke up around noon to the phone ringing. a guy named rick stopped by to pick up the wheel that i had rebuilt for singlespeed use. in exchange he gave me a frame that i put wheels on and sold on ebay. he's way too old to be a hipster, so i have no idea what he's up to. i only wanted his frame. then i had breakfast, but only cereal and silliness. then coffee. then something else. then the grocery store? no. that was yesterday. but it could have been today, or tomorrow. and coffee. no wait, i already did that. then catapult? no. that didn't happen. i thought that. then i moved my bike and adjusted something. or did? i think so. and then…did i nap? no. i don't think so, but i took a shower. i'm…almost…sure. and i dried off with a microfiber robe because all of my towels were dirty…but…i hate microfiber. then i went out riding. i don't know how far we went because my computer magnet was clicking against the sensor, so i had to take it off. or maybe that's a lie and i didn't go biking at all. i can't…remember. i think i went out to eat at a Chinese restaurant because it's something i never do, so i know that i didn't make it up. i wouldn't know how to make it up, and i get the distinct impression that i've only done it once…and…i…ran…a…stoplight. and where is this secret underground that i'm not a part of? and isn't it just worse that i've been in these little places and have been forcibly REMOVED?! i've had it pretty easy when i really consider it. and oh, my sunburn, i moan! and cider goes down like gasoline and fingernails tap like bark and bare feet on morning dew dripped grass sounds just…like…the…sound…of…breaking…glass. and really, isn't this just the once in a lifetime that i've waited for and will…wait?! maniac!!?! fuckings!!!!!!!!! FORM?! F-ORMF ORM???FOR M FOOOR M form form form???? [form] ---form--- f o r m f or m f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f orm FOR. M. for, m. trendy and bleach fucked and clear coat stuck labeled mental case up on top of barn roofs barking at the tunnel in the sky down roller rocking fields of elysian hell missed out catatonic sexual innuendo and down down down we go forming vowels with our dirty mouths and lips are my thing and torsos are worth much song fucked and band delights oh fuck i haven't got the things to offer from a box of fresh thoughts and fairy cloaked new tomorrows and i'd be the same old day lived one two many times and swim in lakes bloody seaweed grasp grappling devices of fucking leisure and six doodles on my desk and six names written on the underside where gum for gradeschoolers and i fucked…up…bad and kitten apples to new friends and flagellate my bloody bloody places and sinking ships die first box outside the verbs of telling how to tell misery to the adverbs that do nothing and inconstancy to the fucking mindless dreary days and hold me while i whimper and dry heave with tearless tears and vomit i'm sorry i'm sorry i can be more when my words laugh at themselves and HAH they'll say and FUCK they'll say YOU'RE NOTHING they'll mutter and HOLY HELL they'll shriek WHAT THE FUCK IS THAT and from the better tomorrow a small beetle will return with juicy black blood and OH MY GOD I DIDN'T KNOW and they'll cower and i'll cower and the sun will crash into the moon once and for all and old bands with bad songs will become…FORM.