---
title: 'reality check'
date: "2010-02-06 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

It has been difficult this year to organize rides with my usual riding partners, so this morning I thought I would branch out and try something new. I woke up at 5:30 with the intent of meeting up with the loon state cycling saturday morning ride at 7:30 in excelsior. I drank cold coffee leftover in the french press the day before, grabbed a couple of cookies and was on my way, leaving my house around 6am. Of the several poor decisions I would make, two were made before leaving the house: studded cyclocross tires front and rear, and a 38x17 singlespeed gear. I knew that most of the loon state guys would be on cyclocross bikes, so it seemed like the most appropriate stuff. I made it to the greenway and unsurprisingly the trail turned to shit around its usual point in saint louis park. I was ready to turn around and crawl back into bed until I met a rider that I recognized immediately after turning around. I told him I probably wouldn't complete the ride, but that I would accompany him for a bit. He was much faster through the difficult sections, and when we opted to take the road to hopkins it was all that I could do to hang on to his wheel. I would have been out of my league even given equal bike setups, but he had multiple gears and no studs. As we spun along at 20mph I kept telling myself, admit defeat and go home. We made it to the lrt. I kept up on the cleaner sections (or he started noticing that I was hurting and slowed his pace) but got immediately dropped when the snow was deeper and more rutted. This went on for a while. He was friendly and very pleasant to ride with, but I knew that when it was ten people of his caliber the ride wouldn't be so accommodating to my inadequacy. I just didn't belong there. Around lake minnetonka I decided to turn around. Once I was back on the cedar lake I stopped for a much needed water and cookie break. I was exhausted and drenched with sweat. I got home, took a shower, and continued scheming ways to make new riding friends.