---
title: "mostly forgettable: part I"
date: "2008-02-15 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Life', 'Running']
tags: 
---
Today has not gone as I expected it would. Rather than five inches of fluffy snow there was perhaps an inch. I had anticipated a day of riding the Pugsley through huge drifts, toiling to maintain speeds not much faster than a brisk jog. In the morning we took a trip to REI, as seemingly endless minor items had accumulated on my list of things unnecessary but of such insignificance expense that further justification was not required. The roads were disappointing, covered in saltwater that launched from the endomorphs like icy, ocean shrapnel. I looked at my clothing upon arriving and was amazed how messy I had gotten in but a few short miles. Surly has promised pugsley fenders for years, but failed to produce. I think it might be time for custom fabrication. I can imagine that they would prove useless in a snow race situation where crashing frequently would likely result in things rubbing, but in the city where road chemicals are heaved from the back of artillery machines they are somewhat more useful. On second thought, why wouldn’t they be useful in a snow race? Staying dry is of utmost importance in cold weather.
I found this out especially during my run later in the day. The temperatures had crept into the teens so I daringly wore only a thin coolmax running shirt, a smartwool calf length lower, and running shorts. I also abandoned a hat for a rather silly looking headband. The idea was to get a baseline for staying dry. I expected that I would be much too cold for the entire length of the run, but I wanted an idea with which I could compare other experiences at similar temperatures. The wind was coming from the north and as I exited that same side of the building I gasped for air. The cold wind ripped across my torso and it took an almost unsummonable amount of conviction to proceed with my plan in spite of the discomfort. The first mile was horrible. The wind constantly assaulted me as I tried to move quickly and accumulate body heat. Once I turned south, however, I started to feel much better. I was warmer, and most importantly, I was staying dry. The conditions on the route that I chose were not good. Once I went past the campus area I struggled with unplowed sidewalks and roads. Even an inch and a half of snow can drastically change one’s ability to run. It becomes more like a trail run, something for which I have been growing in affection but not skill. I reached mile five and was happily warm and dry. My setup was working perfectly. I ran another four miles and stumbled home. My arms were somewhat chilled, but overall I felt that I could have gone at least another five miles before I would have been too cold to continue. Unfortunately, I didn’t feel the same confidence in my legs. They were tired. The 150% increase in mileage this month seems to be taking its toll. Either that, or the restricted diet that I’ve employed is inhibiting my ability to recover as quickly as I had been. I’ll take tomorrow off and reassess on saturday.
