---
title: "a simple matter of perception: part I"
date: "2008-02-05 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Life', 'Writing']
tags: 
---

It is a matter of perception, I tell myself. My body aches. I am cold and wet. Yet, the distance I have covered seems so insignificant. I cannot possibly feel this exhausted. It is a matter of perception. In the parking lot there is a blue car whipping donuts. The snow flutters in its wake and I wonder how safe I am a quarter of a mile away in the featurelessness of the snow and flatscape. I move forward. To god, I think, to god I owe this suffering, this experience­--not to enact change or to help, but rather to allow creation to impress upon me my minuteness and fragility. I am suddenly a religious man, because if I am not then I am nothing. I am without principal in a barren landscape, suffering for no one and nothing. Yet, I am compelled to this and in its pain I feel life and fulfillment. Too soon it ends and I am once again dreary and unprincipled. I am no longer a religious man. I no longer feel love and affection for those people around me, only regret for the past and gloom for the future. How is it then, that when I eat and drink and recover myself, that I cannot remember these things? Why do I only feel love for people when I am starving, when my legs will not propel me forward, when words escape in disjointed heaves? And when my will detaches from my body, is it not tantamount to death? Perhaps this is transcendentalism. Ah, but it is not! It is simply that to be myself I must first forget myself. When I have my strength, my wits about me, I cannot yet be forgotten. My experience, callously mitigated, becomes intemperate and boring and I cannot think clearly. The voice of rationality overcomes sentiment and I am consumed with contingencies and equity. But what if she dies! What if she no longer loves me! What if my body stops working! What if my mind stops thinking! What if I have no money! What if I starve! Is she not at least a little bit too ugly! Am I not just a little bit too ugly! and it goes on as such until I am left with no option except inaction and boredom. I read the Russians because they are constantly pressing hands and exclaiming! because they will follow a whim to its end, whether it be bliss or destruction. Could I not medicate this condition? Further dull it so that I could not even recognize the stupor in which I exist? It must certainly be possible, perhaps even advisable were it not for poverty and too great an estimation of self worth. Stupid plastic enchantress! And so it goes, that I eat my lunch and scrawl out this madness. "Good afternoon," I tell the mannequin. It's good practice. I'm not in love with her at all. It is merely a matter of perception.
