---
title: "sort of like ice skating: part I"
date: "2007-12-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

When you let someone ruin your life it is inescapable that you will be haunted by their image. This may, at times, occur in the loose configuration of shapes comprised in the space between a shifting stranger and its shadows; but occasionally, it will be the genuine image or being. Quickly detecting which you are confronting is important to existing with other people who know nothing of the situation. If it becomes even remotely apparent that you are struggling to identify those things occurring internally with those that are occurring externally then you are in trouble. People will quickly attempt to isolate you as unfit for society. The first and most necessary reaction is that of staring vacantly. It is important that you neither look away or look with any particular level of investment. It can be difficult to construct detail in the blurred vision of vacant staring, but it can be done. It is also important that the body remain relaxed during this glassy eyed observation. People will often tap their foot nervously or begin to shift their upper bodies as the eye contact reaches two and three seconds. These are obvious signs of mental discomfort and it does not take a particularly astute person to follow the direction of your gaze. Like a football player, you must also have a mental clock that tells you exactly how much time you have to get the information you need and respond appropriately. This varies from person to person due to variations in static personality, but with some practice anyone can tap into this subconscious sense of timing. If you realize that too much time has passed, or that someone else has latched on to your gaze, then the best course of action is to act confused. Fortunately, anything can be an object of confusion--an incorrect number of fork tines on your dinnerware, a painting, the lighting and cleanliness of the room, or some interesting snippet from the current political scene. I try to carry with me one such piece of information for quickly disarming any dangerous situation. The reason that politics work so well is because people like to appear informed. Acting confused about ski goggles or the appropriate temperature for baking sugar cookies does not have the same impact. Few people take pride in having that sort of information, or at least giving the illusion of having such information. The most important thing to remember is that you don't actually feel anything--it's only an ingrained and mechanical response to a previous experience, like falling down while ice skating. Upon getting back up you will be inclined to feel some greater sense of familiarity with the ice and the skates, but in its essence it is still only three, cold, and inanimate objects thrust into union by unfortunate circumstances.