---
title: 'toast.'
date: "2010-11-07 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Cycling
tags: ['veloviet', 'group ride']
---

I went on a ride with Veloviet today. Temperatures were expected to be in the high fifties by midday, so the turnout was quite good for a November ride. Around fifteen people gathered at Quang's house in Blaine. I got a ride there with Chaes who recently reappeared after an inexplicable disappearance in the deep south for a couple months. He looked downright silly with enormous floppy booties, arm warmers (on his legs) that didn't quite meet with his bike shorts, and a massive windbreaker...oh, and winter gloves. It reminded me of when kids try to dress themselves. I looked only slightly silly in my Lake winter boots. My feet get cold easily.  
  
The ride started out innocently. In the "social zone" I met a couple new people and reveled in the warming sensation of the combined efforts of my body and the sun. It was a beautiful morning to be out on the road with a bunch of other cyclists. At eleven miles Quang announced that the groups would be splitting with the faster group going just a bit farther on the out and back and everyone meeting at a gas station that would serve as a midpoint for the slower riders. I positioned myself about five riders from the front, thinking that I would most likely go with the faster group. Quang went to the front and brought the past up to 26-28mph. I figured this was just a temporary burst of speed to separate the groups so I hung in there. After around a half mile he pulled off and the next person pulled through. It went like this for a few riders until it was my turn. The pace still hadn't slowed. I couldn't believe that everyone was riding at such high speeds. I took my turn and drifted to the back to find that the group had shrunk to just four riders: me, Quang, and two riders that I didn't recognize. They were both on Litespeed road bikes and Quang was on his Cannondale. I felt out of place with my cross bike.  
  
I didn't look back to see how far back the other riders had fallen. I was near my limit, wondering how long I'd be able to last before I had to fall back to the others. We organized well, each taking turns at the front. *Tall guy* (Terry, Barry, or Perry...still not sure) was clearly the strongest rider and took some massive pulls. For twenty-fives miles we just hammered. Quang's Polar device separated the different sections. He later told me that we averaged 23.7mph over this section. I tried to do enough work at the front without putting myself in a position to be spit out the back after my turn. I did okay, but there were a few sections where I don't remember seeing anything except the wheel in front of me. I couldn't even really tell you what direction the route went. We finally reached the gas station where the groups would reconnect. Although I was starting to feel a little bit better I figured I would end up joining the slower group for the ride home. After waiting for a while drinking chocolate milk, eating a sandwich and some dried cranberries Quang made the call to the other group. *We didn't make it to the gas station. One of the riders is just dying* (metaphorically).  
  
I had a bad feeling that rider was Chaes. He has a history of epically bonking. Earlier in the summer he was getting very strong but he hasn't been riding bikes for a couple months. We didn't know who the rider was so we just took off with the hope of catching the other group on the return. As we were passing through some small town or another someone spotted a rider by himself in the McDonalds parking lot. We went back. It was Chaes...looking like hell. Glassy, bloodshot eyes, mumbling incoherently, stumbling. It was a classic Chaes bonk. He explained that he wasn't going to make it home and Doug was going to return with his car to pick him up. We continued. The wind was now in our face. Everyone was starting to feel the effects of our efforts and the speed dropped a bit. I was feeling okay. I knew I'd make it back with the group at this point. I was probably hurting a bit less than at least one other rider, maybe two. Not much happened the rest of the ride. We finished with an average speed well over 20mph in beautiful midday sun. Can't help but feel good about that.  
  
We returned to Quang's house and ate leftover spring rolls until Chaes and Doug made their way back. Chaes drove me back to my place where I began the glorious afternoon lounging that would fill the rest of my Sunday.
