---
title: "obsession: part I"
date: "2008-01-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Two days ago I decided to mix squats back into my winter training. Last year I opted to forgo squats in favor of the idea that running alone makes a person a better runner. This theory allowed me to shed a lot of unnecessary muscle mass and come into the marathon at a lighter weight than if I'd been lifting while training. Typically within two weeks of a major layoff from weight lifting I put on 8-10 pounds. I'm sure a lot of this has to do with water retention and complex physiological things well beyond my grasp--nonetheless, the number on the scale creeps upward. However, more than the unnecessary bulk, I have struggled to get out and run on days when sore legs have made even simple things such as walking to the kitchen agonizing and tedious. This year I'm trying something different--more training, more intensity. Floyd Landis once said something to the effect that there is no such thing as overtraining, only undertraining for the current volume of training. While Floyd was probably jacked up on EPO, HGH, testosterone, and any other number of artificial enhancements for which I lack both interest and access, there remains a certain amount of truth in his comment. When I was out of shape in my late teens, the volume of training that I've managed any of the past seven year would have been inconceivable. I would have quickly submitted to overtraining and hurt myself. Likewise, the amount of training--specifically running--that I did last year would have destroyed me in previous years. While I imagined that my goal was to train to run a marathon, my goal was actually to train in order to increase my training volume. The marathon was somewhat of an incidental objective that merely celebrated the volume of training that I'd already endured. 

This year I want to move towards Grandma's more focused on my actual goal--train so that I can train more. Due to a number of past injuries there is a limit to the rate at which I can increase my running volume. However, the volume of cross training that I am able to sustain seems limited more by time constraints than endurance. I was very single minded in my approach last year. When I could not run I simply did not train. This year I intend to focus of any type of training that will increase the volume of training that I can endure. I enjoy a variety of activities and if I balance my level of investment I feel that I can substantially increase my training volume. Weight lifting, cycling and snowshoeing are all going to be instrumental to my preparation. 

If I can just harden the fuck up I know that I can push myself faster and longer than I have in the past. I feel dedicated almost to the point of obsession.