---
title: 'uninvited rock and roll'
date: "2009-01-30 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I was about to go to bed a moment ago when the assholes downstairs decided to start playing guitar hero. This gives me time to think rather than rest. It's good. Thanks dudes. Thank you for your uninvited rock and roll. Earlier today I got home from grocery shopping to find a man in my bathroom. "What's up dude?" "I'm going to replace the guts in your toilet." "Sweet." I found out yesterday that my incompetent landlady would be in our bathroom today attempting a task at which she has limited proficiency (this could be almost any task) and that because of it I would not be able to shower for a day and a half. Fine. Whatever. Naturally I thought this strange man in my apartment was here to fix our shower. No. Of course not. She arrived two and a half hours late and took an exceptionally long time while doing a bad job. Since I couldn't shower at the apartment I decided to forgo any cycling and instead spend some time at the gym. I left her to her muttering and animal sounds and embarked on one of my sporadic upper body workouts. I have done a great job the past several months with leg and core workouts, but have spent hardly any time at all using my upper body. It was quickly apparent that inactivity and muscle strength remain incompatible concepts. My workout was exhausting and humbling, but thankfully brief. It will probably spur me to be at least a bit more consistent, if not ambitious, with my upper body days. Earlier in the day I made a strange decision: join the hipster masses and get an iphone. Curious. Even a bit unexpected. The truth was that I needed a new phone as mine was six years old and didn't hold a charge much beyond a couple of hours, but my needs could have been served just as well with a phone from the dollar store. I rarely carry my phone with me and have very few people who call me. Mostly I wanted to have the luxury of ridiculing the I-everything culture without arousing suspicion that I was doing so out of jealousy or disinclusion. However, I must confess that I am intrigued by a few of the features. For example, it has the ability to locate itself geographically and retrieve a street map while just about anywhere. This will be an incredibly handy feature if I happen to have it along while cycling somewhere unfamiliar. The same could have been accomplished by purchasing a GPS for roughly the same price and without any monthly fee. Perhaps it was only that hearing the same five songs each five times per day on the current has finally short circuited my brain into thinking that I have disposable income. Oh well, in the end it will become one of those hyper-dense quasi-ironies in my life that I don't understand. How do I feel? Fuck if I know.