---
title: 'Drip away'
date: "2005-05-05 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I’ve never felt such cold words. Of all that I might have been given, of all of life’s curiosities and human indiscretions, I could imagine nothing more heartless, nothing more devoid of passion. All of history unwrapped and tossed aside to the wanton desire to be free of the scoundrel, free of the sinner, free of the thinker, free of the poet, free for the heavens to take. Have I been tricked? Have I been tested? I won’t fall so easily into forgotten yesterdays; I won’t flee life’s resonance. I’ll sit here in good faith with pomp to spare and exclaim that I have been foul and filthy and I have pandered to life’s cruelty. I have plundered the lives of the people that will remember me. I have surrendered pieces of myself to the harrowing nightmare that is mortality. I have lived and I have died. The mortal coil will be swept away with the setting of the sun and I will be forgotten. But here I am—to be judged, mocked, and flooded with the idleness of growing old with my memories. But I will not forget. I will not manipulate the sorrow on the faces of the ones that I have hurt; I will not change the cold and icy skin of the dead, or its ethereal and somber coloring. I will not raise myself from the dead. Life has broken my heart. Here, where the can’t becomes the might not and words somehow seem a poor substitute for sitting alone in a room with nothing but a spiral bound notebook and time to spare. I doodle. I mystery. I seventeen. I again. I forever. I unbound. I litigious. I remember. I somehow. I you. I am. The voice that you know—the assuredness of your existence—is the thing that grows most distant from you and I watch with my tinderbox and my kindling; I watch you urgently die. I watch as you forget to remember me. I watch as you shuffle your feet in the muck of others’ discarded bodies. I watch as I trip and stumble and fall headlong into the naught. I drink wine and walk with a swagger. I fall backwards and let the wind catch me. Here, uncontrolled. Here, imaginative. Here, undressed. Here, unrequited. Here, caught in the crashing waves of my thoughts flowing from here to there. Here, where the bloodshot of my eyes betrays my confidence. A rebellion. The washing machine bucks. Every dance that we’ve shared on the crooked hardwood floor; every piece of gone that unwinds; every widow in the barbershop window—severed at the eyes, severed in the night. A kiss farewell. I make my pancakes from a large box engraved with the words, “INSTANT! JUST ADD WATER!” The heuristics of dying. Dead skin. Clipped nails. Cut hair. Go out into the world and leave your body splattered everywhere. Don’t turn away and don’t scream. Don’t fantasize and don’t molest. Don’t manipulate and don’t deny. Here in the hands of you and I. Here where the pastels drip like arterial spray to the painted sky. Here where I am almost myself. Your words cut me, and I drip away.