---
title: 'death to the hideons'
date: "2005-09-08 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

school starts again tomorrow. it's going to be difficult, but not because it's school and not because it's challenging. the challenge, quite simply, is to stomach it, to hold out through the days of drudgery for the one class that might pique my interest or the one person who might give me butterflies; but even those are unlikely. more likely, to stomach it only means a temporary distraction from the endless plodding of my feet toward the cliff that overlooks never never. ...to give myself some temporary thing with which to wholeheartedly identify, to feign immortality with. something to do. something to do. so i will go back. it will occupy my time, my space, and my sleep patterns (my dreams). it will tell me how to behave and it will tell those around me how it is that i have behaved--not entirely properly, but with some wit, some charm, and a bit of intelligence ...and perhaps one day i will graduate and they will all lose themselves in a moment of being proud (contemptuous). am i something? could i be something more, less, or different? could i reassess it all and realize what i've missed? or how long could i sit at a trendy bar, speaking to no one before they would ask me to leave?

everyone feels uncomfortable around me and i want to know why. it's stressful when i know that a conversation will only go on for thirty seconds before i say something that will summon the death lull, the awkward what now what now grimace. it happens with everyone, so i really can't blame anyone except for myself. the more that i try to reasonable, rational, and an easy conversation the more i turn into hideon. people who write to me always stop and people who call me on the telephone call more and more frequently because they don't know that i'm a hideon (it's hard to tell on the phone)--they just think that i have asthma and need to take things...very...slowly. sooner or later they learn that i'm a hideon. i can't conceal it for very long so i'm thinking that tomorrow when i go to school i will just get things started straightaway by saying, "hello. i am tim. i am a hideon. please don't feel obligated to try to give me a chance. i will only make you feel awkward without knowing why. i am also overly sensitive to all of the human discomfort around me, but that's part of being a hideon, so i'm not the only one or really very unique at all. i'm not even good at reading comic books." and then i will sit down and not say anything for the rest of the class period. the next class period everyone will have forgotten and when group work is assigned they will imagine that i am about to say something reasonable and i will VOMIT ALL OVER THEM.

i rode my bike tonight. i want there to be more hills around here. mountains, even. but there aren't. motorists would respect me more if they saw me climbing a huge mountain rather than the small inclines that we have in minnesota.

i will go to sleep now. busy busy busy...