---
title: '...continued'
date: "2006-03-15 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

i’m awake and needled by dreams, poisoned by the infallibility of messages eclipsed in taste only by the waking sensation of the tongue drystuck to the roof of the mouth and the fruit rollup peeling sensation of tearing it away. i’m like an infant feeding on dumpster dryer. i do my laundry. i eat my lunch. i sip my coffee. i write the same thing that i did a week ago, injecting grammatical mistakes and fragility to feel more real when i read it back to myself in a hushed but intense whisper. i open my window a crack and it gets too cold. i take a bath and i get too warm. i enumerate my fears and file them with six digit serial numbers to be calculated and inventoried at a future date. i adult myself to the real world. for the past three days i’ve checked my mail and not taken it from the box. i already have enough, thank you.

...and in that file, under the letter b, i have a (n almost) blank piece of paper with the question, "yeah, but what’s your shtick?" what happened to all of that funny business and self replicating speech pattern? when and how the inspiration, and who...are...you? do we change like shared dreams, awoken, perspired, and inspired all at once with compulsive movements that find us in the kitchen at the same time in the dead hour of the morning--panting, wordless, and breathless with our arms poised stiff at our sides? wide eyed, like your funny little picture, do we relent and say just that? do we purr softly like kittens and run out of words at exactly the right time? and how often have i heard shadows pad softly away when the mistakefuls of me take shape and body? how many have fallen out of love so swiftly that the reflections of the bathroom counter are still the same a week later? do i dare, from this paralysis, scheme to betray that brittle shell that tangifies only an aesthetic? oh bitter dream. oh wrecked soliloquy. oh loveless habits that form like the breath of heroin or the drip drip of the nightingale sweating bullets. to me. to you. to this. and all.