---
title: "nothing left to give: part I"
date: "2008-03-12 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

My lungs have been ruined. And again I am a child--weak, feeble, helpless, and much too small for all of the hours in the day. Idly, drooling, I stare forward without the least contemplation, my hands folded in my lap and vacancy spread across my face. Yet, there is no room in my emaciated brain for larger thought, no ability in my drained body for even the most simple of tasks. I went seventy hours without sleeping more than an hour at once, and even once I could sleep again it didn't matter--nothing was left to be saved. And I watch the self righteous sufferer glow in his pompousness while I tap my finger on mahogany and wait for the next hallucination. Maybe it will be more interesting. One pullup...two...and my lungs are burning, blackness is clouding my vision. I stop, doubled over and give up. One foot in front of the other. There's a sedan in the left turn lane with its car alarm blaring. With each iteration of the piercing noise the headlights flash and the car in front of it squirms as though fully aware that it's idiocy and not an emergency, but unwilling to commit to the plainness of it. We hate plainness. I walk through the grocery store without seeing Nastaya Filippovna. I purchase a liter of Boathouse Farms 100% natural Berry Blast with real blueberries and raspberries and Halls natural menthol cough drops, citrus flavor. Life without bicycle, life without running, life without thinking, life without weights, life without the outdoors, life without cold, life without warmth--a dim, pervasive gray encompasses my everything and there are droplets of rain. Where the winter was mine, this crestfallen hero's spring has been ripped away by the cruel injustice of impropriety. I leave them alone. I walk away, humbled, humiliated and unwanted with no home and no way to get there. I shuffle forward in search of some idol whose image I might become prostrate before. Senseless, wicked and without strength or wit enough to utter anything more than, "I am sinner." I open Microsoft Publisher and begin a pamphlet entitled, "If I am to die unexpectedly during my sleep." On the front fold I've included one of the few pictures that I have of myself and a colorful blown up quote resting in pastels on top of an oppositely colored polygon. It may seem very clever but I stole the main idea from one of the many comcast advertisements that arrive almost daily. In the pamphlet I make a number of startling confessions that, although attesting to a certain insincerity of character, reveal a much softer and more caring creature than the one who died unexpectedly during his sleep. While this can be said quite generally--and indeed, the redemptive quality was one of the most attractive qualities of such an endeavor--certain revelations are also made solely for the purpose of clearing my conscience of years of deception. For instance, when I was younger I joined the Communist party before coming to the conclusion that mankind is too stupid and lazy for such a simple principal as sharing. Greed and vanity are the only things that will keep us awake and aware enough to continue making money and fucking each other. Do I have to? I can hear it now. Do I have to fuck her if it's not a show of superiority? Ha ha. I digress. The pamphlet will be part of a spring mailer that I intend to do for the general solidification of my soul as commodity.