---
title: 'Thanksgiving recap and the sudden, unexpected appearance of winter'
date: "2012-11-24 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
tags: ['homesteading', 'Thanksgiving']
---

Winter arrived suddenly. Three days ago I went running at 10pm in shorts and a t-shirt. This morning it is 12F, and I'm pushing my imagination to conceive of some combination of clothing that will make running a few miles seem more desirable. It is not likely. Cycling is no less affected--the studded tires have been mounted, the gearing lowered, and the rapid adaptation to an altered sense of time and space has begun. This is just how it is. During our Friendsgiving moment of individual gratitude, I professed thanks for this very thing, this transformation of landscape and sentiment, this ability to overcome a moment's regret at the shifting of the unsettling familiar. The transformational moment will pass, I will become settled once again, and find value in unique experiences offered by a barren, dark, and cold landscape. Pushed indoors, we will find greater intimacy with each other and ourselves.  
  
Thanksgiving went off swimmingly. My parents came over. We had a short lunch and then got to work on the house. My dad spent seventeen years of his life working as an electrician, so he is in the unfortunate spot of being called upon like one calls upon the dude-friend with the pickup truck when he or she needs to move. *Hey, is this thing possible? What's this box? Where's this go? Will this start on fire?* The immediate task at hand was rewiring one of the kitchen outlets to isolate our second refrigerator on its own circuit. Although we have yet to actually find people, we intend to rent at least a couple bedrooms on our second floor. Since we do not want this to impact our ability to prepare food for the week, we decided to keep our old refrigerator and make it the "renters refrigerator". Aside from discovering another Liz&Liz oddity, it went off without a hitch. We then moved on to recessing an outlet in the dining room so that it would be flush with the wall when we get to repainting it...which brings me to this point: our dining room wallpaper is almost gone. Michelle and my mom spent the day peeling away most of the remaining wallpaper. The only tools utilized thus far have been scrapers and a wet rag. I suspect we are getting incredibly lucky, and may begin the endeavor in the entryway with a bit too much confidence. Wallpaper removal? We're experts.