---
title: 'How is terror?'
date: "2005-05-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

There’s a man in the park. His body is crippled in pain. He brought a mirror with him to watch as it crumbles to the earth, but it hasn’t, yet. He doesn’t have a name anymore. Everyone forgot what it was. He wants to see how much he can take. She kind of wants to see how much he can take too. They watch, together, but not together. They watch to see what it means to be man. They watch to see what that one word that everyone uses REALLY means. They watch his muscles contort and his bones drip with blood; they watch his face wash wounds and his eyes blot black; they watch as he turns away from this life into the next. They can’t believe how far he pushes himself with such little faculty. They can’t believe that he continues to walk, to breathe, and to think with uncluttered mind. How deep does it go? They watch him cry, together. They want to know where the tears come from and why they shimmer against the clouds and gloom. They want to see him die. They want to touch his skin and learn the exact temperature and consistency of the hollow places of his body. They want to run their fingers through his hair and know the precise way that it parts and the approximate softness of it against human skin. They want to turn him inside out and tear him limb from limb. There is a man wandering through the park and no one recognizes his face. There is a man lurking beneath the tress, eating the blossoms. He seems to speak only when no one is around and the children in the park aren’t sure if they’ve really seen him. They run around, pausing at length in his presence, and forgetting soon thereafter that he once was. They want to poke him with a stick and know why he walks with a sag in his spine that seems to extend the length of his body, bowing him at such an unnatural pitch as to place him outside of a digestible now. He wants to see how much his body can take before it falls apart. He wants to see how much his mind can take before it starts reciting addresses from the phone book. He lives to fall to pieces, wanting more than believing that he will be swept up and put back together. They watch him as he moves beneath the trees where the storm reaches only in droplets, only in subdued shards of what it has intended. He feels safe where the contrast between life and death becomes one of either/or, devoid the subtle disintegration into a place between. They watch as he contorts against his body and speaks boldly, “I will live now or I will die now.” They want to feel his presence as he confronts that last place in his mind, that one that offers the question, “But where did I come from?” That same one that wants desperately to know, “But what is it that I am supposed to do?” There is a man in the park who wants to love. He wants to know reason, compassion, and pity. He wants to divide his self into the infinite places where his memories will oft linger. He wants to know that part of forever that he has been promised. His body knows pain. His body is pain, soon to be devoured by the ancestors of time. He will disappear. He will evaporate in one moment of twisting, spiraling terror and in the same moment, he will be gone.