---
title: "2008: part III"
date: "2007-12-31 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Writing
tags: 
---

She shifts, her tongue wedded to the roof of her mouth. With a grimace she rips one from the other and rubs the gritty surfaces against each other. I watch her. Forlorn and drunk. That moment we've just spent, long gone­used up, replaced by the temptation to relive it again too soon. The muted and colorless repetition, in its inverse relation to the source of one happiness or another. Tasting of blood and sweat. Soft, maniacal beats. A rhythm forms in our silence and our lusthate ebbs. Becoming a matter concerned only with not being the recipient. 

I swear I used to be prettier, she mutters. I know. It's true. No one will ever know ...when I was younger ...of course. It's because we don't need each other ...maybe you don't need me. No, we each do not need the other ...but I need something. You cannot need anything ...I love the way you say cannot. That's not true. You enunciate it so thoroughly. There is such conviction and spite in your tongue ...spite resonates clearly. Yet, you fail to recognize that this is spite ...in the way that you say the word cannot. This is our conversation ...once you identified the precise rationale behind the fracturation of self into compartmentalized metaselves bred of mistakes. Not bred. That is not what I said. They were not bred because they were, as you said, products of self fracturation ...you fascinate me. Why don't you think like that anymore? Because I don't care. You've grown primitive. You were once embarrassed of even the slightest twinge in your penis. You hated an uncontrollable physical response being the product of externality. It meant that you were momentarily, not alone ...what's changed? Everything. Nothing. You cannot even dream properly anymore ...untrue. When was your last original dream? ...moments ago. No, not a slideshow of past dreams, but a new dream. New ideas. New words ...you no longer value creativity. That's true. That cannot be true. There it is again. No, you said it last time. I made believe. But you did not. Is it...metastatic? I have this preconceived understanding derived from an ulterior projection of inverse forms resulting from the cohabitation of one's self effacement with one's general dilapidation at the hands of time. That's fucking trite. Get over here, whore. You are thinking in the dictionary sense of the letter m. 

I read a play once that contained that letter, isolated from any concrete idea or word. It was separated from context by a divide no larger than that which separates an article from its corresponding noun, in which case it is read as a conjoined thing no more invested than an atheist to his or her god. The woman on the radio screamed like I was fucking her. I lent the play to a girl I met during a previous transition from one year to the next. She was the most beautiful creature I had ever seen. She had somehow escaped any mark imposed by time upon creature. So precious and fine was her skin that I made no attempt to lay my hands on it, even in reverence for creation. She, too, was a step away from disbelief, but enacted her ambivalence in a much different way: she believed in forgiveness and eternal life while I rooted myself in the lustwatch of a temporary being, a voyeur, a pervert. I loved her in my own fashion, but left her without a word. It is my method­--so predictable--­to consider a creature in a space as hardly distinct from the space surrounding it. In that way the space that separated our physical forms did nothing to break the bond between the thing signified and its notion of self. The woman on the radio wants it bad. 

You loved me once. The letter v dips below a line on which all other characters begin and end. Yet, there are others. I dream. Falsely. 

You mean nothing to me. Is that so? I surmise it based on anecdotal evidence. I have produced the evidence. So you produce it to cause me harm? Yes, absolutely. Why? Does my body repulse you ...are you that simpleminded? Impossible.You look at me and you are inclined to deceive me in such a way as to change my concept of the thing that I am. Therefore, you are principally the thing that defines the space in which I choose to exist ...but it is your choice of space, and therefore it is your existence. Untrue! You speak boldly but without direction. Your intonation. The way that you divide the lines of my face into pieces and make those things inhuman. So we fuck ...hardly. Did we fuck? It is impossible to tell.
