---
title: 'thought deductible'
date: "2009-10-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

14th of october. I am struggling to wake up after already giving myself an extra hour of sleep this morning. Fingerslide. Motionblur. I have been having nefarious dreams. Two nights ago: knife fight. I couldn't figure out how to hold the knife. I was in the parking lot of the grocery store where I worked when I was young. Last night I was talking to a rep from a helmet company. He was advising me on the best helmet for a supervillain. It was a full face covering with strange tentacles coming out the back of it. It fit well and I liked it. Now I am waking up, slowly. After twelve days, my illness is starting to dissipate. I had grown so frustrated with waking up sick that I made an appointment to see a doctor today. Now I won't go. I will rely on this being unlike the bubonic plague. I remember reading about apparent and unlikely recoveries that were followed immediately by precipitous worsening of the condition. Not me. Fuck that. It seems inconceivable that almost half of this month is gone. I have done so little. A week of frigid rain, illness, cold, snow. A lot has happened and I have felt like such a small part of any of it, instead retreating to the familiarity of this space. Putting my boots on the radiator, dreaming masterfully while waking up and finding myself incapable of walking across the room. Yesterday at work a customer brought in a copy of the Pioneer Press. To my surprise, I was on the front page. Freezing, wet, ill, and waiting at a stoplight. It's time to get ready for work now.