---
title: 'i can’t wait to buy new stamps'
date: "2006-01-24 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

school will be starting again soon. i have several hundred things that i’ve needed to do for some time now and simply haven’t done. i ache for the simplicity and routine that i’ve enjoyed in the past, those moments when everything about my way of life was predictable and sustainable. things are scattered and haphazard now. i never know exactly where or how i will be living or how i’m going to overcome my monthly financial deficit to pay my rent, bills, and try to go to school. i live alone now. it’s a mark of adulthood to become so obstinate in your ways that destitution becomes preferable to communal living, rather that one becomes so morally and spiritually destitute that communal living becomes an impossibility. i can’t stand accumulation. seeing and knowing people who are drowning in their things make me all the more certain that it is worth every "what next" moment. since moving i’ve been making an effort to pare down my things to only the most essential, and with those things to develop intimacy, reliance and devotion that far transcends the scattered accumulation of waste culture. i am far from perfect in this regard. my appetite to be a consumer is challenged only by appetite to be a part of something, dedicated to routine and linear progression. i am a failed hermit and craftsman of my own elegant way of life. i am imperfect and inarticulate. sometimes i listen to shitty music. when i look through it i glow with embarrassment that my mind occasionally compromises its sanctity for a repeatable hook, something i can lisp through clenched jaw while i stand in front of the urinal watching the mold grow strong against the machine. my bathroom is perpetually dirty and i can’t stand to look at it. i dream of quiet saturdays cleaning my own sustainable home while multitasking a reliable meal and predictable mail. i used to pay my bills on time and know exactly..."i can fix me. i know how. i can fix me." i’ve decided to start doing whatever i want at work. it’s not that i want anything particular defiant or to be in anyway counterproductive to the ultimate goal of fulfilling my role in the bartering in shit, but rather that i have realized that hard work does not promote loyalty. the corporation is designed with an opaque layer where loyalty and personal connection are filtered and replaced by the indistinct outline of a distant silhouette. there are restrictions in place. there are different contingencies to which i do not belong and am therefore bereft the pleasure of. no one invites me to lunch because it would be inappropriate to invite someone so unimportant to such an important gathering, yet, if i am in the room by some shade of coincidence i am welcomed with all of the false chagrin of false machoism. i am delighted. there are restrictions in place that make it almost impossible for me to develop a relationship with any other human being. there are the class distinctions made inside and outside of work--i am too much of a suburbanite for the gutter punks and too poor and underachieving for the skirt through college feigning careerism want-to-be sensations. i am tainted by a failed marriage that has destroyed almost all of the relationships that i’ve tried to foster or maintain after the split--"oh. i can’t. it would be inappropriate." i am the improper demographic and not politically motivated enough for campusites and much too well versed in the horror of not being able to pay one’s bills or work ten hour weeks. i’m not adult enough for the adults and not childish enough for the resistant. i can’t be friends with anyone who is a philosophy major or any girl under 5’2" or over 5’8" or exactly 5’6". there are factions lining up all over the place and i am not a part of any of them. somehow my relationships always find an unnecessary restriction that produces a troubling an lax sensation. i seek kinship where there can’t possibly be any because of who i am, where i have been, and how i form vowels indiscreetly. no one owes me loyalty because showing it isn’t proof enough that i’m capable and righteous. i think it’s funny when boys think that god cares if they do well at football. "god has given me the strength to make a sweet cutback." no. that’s one part of ultimate truth that i am sure of--god doesn’t give a shit about football. i have a new penpal. hopefully this one will last. i’ve had this paper i’ve wanted to use since march 8th of last year.