---
title: "the coop: part I"
date: "2007-11-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Ever since I was twenty years old I've wanted to fill in the gaps in my pseudo-bohemian lifestyle. All of this, of course, has to be accomplished under the guise of it not mattering, lest the transformation seem unnatural and posed. So it was that just over a year ago I started infrequently shopping at the Mississippi Market coop. I researched everything online, rejoicing in the anonymity of sitting in my bedroom rebreeding myself. The affair was short lived as I quickly came to these conclusions: financial limitations made the sustainability of such a lifestyle highly suspect, and no one at all cared that I rolled up on my bicycle with a sweet ass trailer. I had expected a standing ovation in the parking lot, to be embraced mysteriously as some sort of vagabond from a distant but similarly enlightened coop. Of course, none of this happened and the cashier seemed not the least bit impressed with my selections. There were no other bicyclists with whom I could crow about the stupidity of everyone who did not do and think the same things that we did and thought. Beautiful women did not abound at my feet, begging to be gifted the language and affections of my poetic inner monologue. So I decided to return to regular grocery stores where I could at least reside in the notion of being eccentric (but definitely not dirty--everyone hates dirty eccentrics!). 

A year later I moved to the other side of town where the proximity to the U of M campus again nurtured the notion that I should be shopping elsewhere. On a friend's recommendation I decided to try the Hampden Park coop. Their website proudly displayed a blurb from City Pages declaring them the least corrupt, most bohemian grocery store in all of the world. This was it. The big moment. I made the mistake on the first trip of grabbing a shopping cart. I didn't anticipate buying anything other than coffee, but in a show of seriousness and bravado I eased through the meager aisles with one of six available shopping carts. The lunch rush hit and I found myself trapped in the back half of the store, unable to maneuver to the exit until some of the people had left. I spent this time pretending to be very interested in the bag of currants that I was purchasing for my breakfast cereal. I felt okay leaving­I hadn't made fool enough of myself to establish that I was not, in fact, indisputably punk. The second trip went well until I got to the cashier. She stared at me (I remembered to wear almost all black this time, with only a bit of brown to separate me from the goths), mouth agape and refused to speak, instead waiting for me to confidently announce the PLU number for the bag of coffee that I was purchasing. My most recent trip again went well until I reached the cashier who was simply hateful, staring at me with her deathray-saucer eyes and injecting each syllable of each word with a venomous hiss. I pretended not to notice and winced my best smile. One day my self indulgent vision will be complete and I will be able to speak openly and righteously to even the most uninviting stranger on the street, but it is not yet (don't tell anyone).