---
title: 'begging'
date: "2006-03-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

swiveled and gesticulated, encased between two pairs of eyes that construct only to be reconstructed, but never quite completely. this is the beauty. i can point to it with my fingers made crooked from years of twisting them around each other, tapping on the shivering refrigerator while quietly begging it for silence. two years earlier, moving them in the slight crevice of the spine and in that same whisper begging for love. to be begged again, bartered and subdued to extinction, to last in the infinite seconds between neckties draped around the angled braces that support the floor above, and the one above that, and so on until the air looms with deadly distance and the people become autonomous blips of nothing. to have found, in this moment of angled brace desperation, a reason to carefully unwind the piece of fabric, being sure not to snag it on the splintered edges of the unfinished wood, is to have found eyes outside of my sockets, held gently in the palm of the hand like miniature colonies of bacteria. i rest my hope like a worn traveler. i am challenged by premature i love yous and forgetful i miss yous, waiting always for that real moment of synchronicity that does not feel like unnatural fluids being pressed together-- water and oil, semen and antifreeze. i lick my lips. i anticipate. waiting to reciprocate, always dividing the passing moments by the next to reach a quotient that does not make me want to erupt in to spontaneous tears and shivers. i am on the floor in front of my refrigerator, bleeding from my knees, eyes pierced by fiction and scrounging for that last lick of orange juice from around the rim of the biodegradable container. i'm cut. i'm helpless with a stack of mail next to the door and my keys thrown on the floor. so many things have waited for later, and yet, so many have waited so patiently for right now.