---
title: "feigned laughter: part I"
date: "2008-08-06 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

It follows me like a fucking plague, a disease, something from which innards cannot be extracted except inwards. Oh fuck. How relentless, these occurrences of unsound images, not fortified by my own personal countenance. And for each for each fucking forget-me-not there exists simultaneously a willed stasis, a static transition from this point to one on the distant timespace horizon. Of course, it's not about me. It never is. It's a cataclysmic whirlwind forged of dead butterflies and perceived promiscuity, romanticism, implications wound into shapes that resemble limbs. Mister play-dough, mister self-contained. It was a moment in August. I stood at my front door wondering whether I should come or go. I was destined to be ten minutes late of twenty minutes early. The conversation that I had with Nate went like this. "Where the fuck are you?" "Didn't you get my message?" "No." And so on. I stood there, track bike in hand. White bartape, torn bits at the elbows where I grasped with wrists cocked outward. I pedaled furiously while looking casual. Fucking plague. Fucking self contained. And it was as if choreographed, because if not for a harmless stranger on a bicycle with a face begging for beer I would never have stopped, safe, camouflaged against the backdrop of the city where I imagined myself a graceful symbiont, the little thing suckling bits of blood from its jaws. I prepared to say something obscure about BURNT SIENNA. Ever the obscurantist, ever the obstinate optimist. Cleverly pre-concocted prejudicial whimsy and contrite sighs for the FLOC K. I was recently divorced, so recently...so fucking recently. There I was, scouring the city for affection that might be handed to me like one hands candy to a child. Give me what I need. I'm begging for it with my eyes. A gentleman. And she was slouched in her chair and didn't hear a word that I said. I shuddered as my feigned whimsy came out even more hollow and useless than it had the first time. I was not to be amusing, not clever or quick witted. And I began to engage only periodically, fondling with my stained lips the beer mug in the receding daylight. After that beer I would order only Guinness. In the streets we became a mass, ceaseless and senseless in our propulsion toward a self destructive end. I watched him wobble against the curb, relenting with an ill fated flop on to the sidewalk. "Man down!" Nothing was the matter. Everything was fun. Everyone was happy and everything was casual. As the stops went on I began to once again think myself rather clever. I spoke with a subdued drunken grace and, of course, I rode a track bike. A genuine track bike with the dropouts going the wrong direction and steering that mimicked electrocution. Genuine. Tattered bartape and deep drops. I was a prince, somehow even more brilliant than my own inflated estimation of myself. The baleful egoism eroded into the awareness of a distant orb. Van C leve Park. I threw grass and teetered on the brink of suffocation. I think now and I want to describe more things, but I am coming again to my senses. The passion that threw me into a frenzy of writing is receding and I am becoming strategic in my choice of description. "I never put so much truth into my writing," I think. I look around. I calculate. I become a resplendent and favorite kind of self directed dislike. I become a nonthinking being.
