---
title: 'ATLAS E-Z SEAL'
date: "2009-11-08 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

life is fucking ridiculous. people, fucking ridiculous. always at the center of self imposed objects that are diametrically opposed to the proposition of self. fucking inverse, transverse righteousness and bullshit. purely addicted to bullshit and minimal affectation. lie this. fuck that. I'm completely weary of this subconscious underbelly of harbored opinions, misdeeds, candid mis-declarations, insane projections, perceived rejections. fuck. it. all. I have a very specific reason, of course (we always do!), for sitting down at my computer beer in hand, fire-in-belly, point blank conception to conceive this brittle open mouthed, fist to the face confession. I am insecure. right? I get it. but that's not what this is about. I have driven an automobile. I have I have. no lie. no bullshit. no misconception or hair-brained upside down mis-connection between my own disconnection from reality and its own malleability when presented with either/or. so when you are driving an automobile you need to store it somewhere while you engage in the pressing matter that compelled you to drive an automobile in the first place. I realize, now, that some people drive automobiles for sexual pleasure. this particular dis-statement of falsity might make it a confusing mess for those people to put the pieces together. in any case, when you are temporarily storing your automobile you need to consider the following: proximity of the potential storage location to the object and alignment of the object within the generally accepted parameters of spatial disconnection. automobile #1. automobile #2. automobile #3. etc. ad infinitum. so automobile driving has a lot more to do with imagination than one might think. paltry, brittle fucked up colorless dreams. infestation of the consciousness by inconceivably dense lies. for example: the lie might comprise but a very small part of her brain, but its density is not proportional. one is sucked into the minutia, immediately losing sight of the context in which the lie first construed itself. for example: fuck off. I have been dreaming these words for the past ten minutes and I cannot decide if I am saying them to myself or to someone else. callous callous bacteria, oozing, spreading in limbo towards my lungs and then back towards my brain. casual glowing bastard of this fucked up prismatic reality. I took for granted the fact that consistency and levelheadedness was inappropriate to this particular situation around which I've been attempting to dance. my mistakes? unforgivable. clearly. perpetual penance. perpetual degradation of the human spirit. artlessness. hah ha. fucking beer-sucking dope machine. (sucked into the minutia) over the course of the past several months I have become addicted to the sound of white noise. fucking white noise. the things that are so mundane and repetitive, so fucking dreary, and yet they are the things that bring our spirits peace, the things that lull us into a state of utter fascination and love. manipulated. bleeding. villainous. utterly devastated but at the same time feigning carelessness. a human orgy of psychological violence. dripping, fascinated at the re-invention of this self that has no control over the things that he says or feels.