---
title: "in a fever: part I"
date: "2008-03-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Nastasya Filippovna­--I saw you at the grocery store. The skin on my face was tingling. When I moved my arm there was a trail behind it, like a comet entering the atmosphere and disintegrating. There was a disconnect between my brain and limbs, and as I tried to become once again orderly, I noticed you out of the corner of my eye. Your back was turned to me, but I was sure from your posture and parka that it absolutely, certainly was you. Oh, how I loved you too! I was almost crazy with fever so the only things in my hands were two containers of ice cream. I wanted so much to give you both of them. No! Not just one! I wanted you to have both! See, I had it in my mind that putting something cold in my body might lower the temperature inside of my body, but it was no matter with you Nastaya Filippovna. The creatures in my mind and the strange motion of my body could haunt me no more than that instant when we became aware of one another. It was as if a dream, as if I knew your face though you were turned away from me. How I acted then I am not sure. I do not recall coming home nor do I recall when the chill set in. It must be seventy-five degrees in the apartment now and I am wearing layer upon layer of wool. Still I am freezing. On the bed I've stacked a collection of blankets, nearly all that I own. The top is green and scratchy--­the sort you might find in a cheap motel room in between the sheet and the comforter. I always forget to mention the details though I think of them always as they are happening. "Strange, there is steam rising from the pools of water but the temperature is well below freezing," I thought. Could it be? And the first car went hesitantly, as though in the same state of delirium, while the second hastened quickly behind it--­out of order, but with an assertiveness that didn't require even a twist of the neck in contemplation of this fellow thing. It is later now, Nastasya Filippovna, and I filled with the most bitter, blinding hatred. How unfair these maddening twists of fate! I awoke, shivering in delirium, and pronounced to the belated image of my wife that the illness would pass if only I was patient. Even as I reached out knowing very well that she was not there the faculties of my body prepared for contact with another body. See how I have been deceived! Even my senses have been damned to the whims of this altered state of perception. And to disentangle these two obviously disingenuous things, and to find some reason to pull myself forward through this senseless suffering--­why? To suffer to remind myself that I am something­, that I can do and with the utmost courage; but to suffer under the weight of proving that I nothing, that at even the slightest ripple I might fall apart and become simply remnants? No! So there must be between us an agreement of our mortality and immortality. If only between us, if only with the slightest reward and certain insanity, we must agree that never shall we be nothing. You­--simply in my imagination, yet fully perceived by my senses­--and I, shall remain indisputable proofs of the other's unflagging permanence. Hah ha! C an I tell you something?