---
title: '14 mile run and date night'
date: "2012-03-08 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Running
---

This should probably be two entries, but I'm already pushing the limit for an acceptable number of blog-posts-per-day, so it will be a single, disjointed entry that illuminates my spiritual complexity...err...whatever. For the past nine days my physical activity has been limited to riding my bike to and from work. My tooth holes were on the mend, so I was cautioned to avoid strenuous activities for a while. Today I declared myself healthy enough to return to *normal*. I would have liked to return to running with a more moderate length distance, but with the Get Lucky half marathon only ten days away, I needed to get in a solid training run. After a delicious and somewhat indulgent breakfast (two buckwheat pancakes, almond butter, maple syrup), I was ready. Lacking creativity, I decided to run to work and then home. I find it difficult to plan longer runs in the winter. I don't like to carry or pay for water, use disposable drinkware, or go for more than an hour without *quenching my thirst*. It's a conundrum best solved by lapping awkwardly from gas station sinks or stopping at familiar places along the route. This time I opted for the latter, but trust that I do my share of the former. The run to the shop was great. I kept my heart rate low and tried not to bounce my jaw around too much. The fierceness of the west wind was calmed by virtue of it being squarely at my back. I...was...rocket...ship. And so forth. When I arrived at work I drank water, ate an avocado, and enjoyed the company of my coworkers, some of whom I will not see again until next week...oh, the separation anxiety! Leaving the shop, I knew that I'd be hungry again before I reached home. I am still five pounds away from my target weight of 160, so I've spent much of my time carefully toeing the line between catastrophic bonk and expeditious weight loss. It's been easy on the days when I simply go to and from work. Feeling depleted on a seven mile bike ride home is hardly any cause for concern. Running requires a bit more planning. Fortunately, Hampden Park coop is conveniently located on my way home, so when I predictably started feeling a bit peckish around mile eleven, I was able to stop briefly for three delicious plums. MMMMmmmm. The rest of the run was uneventful.  
  
**Part II: date night** My girlfriend and I decided to declare one of the nights of the week to be *date night*. Yeah. yeah. This is a totally predictable and cliche relationshipping tactic. Well, we're going to do it *awesome* so it will overcome all Most-Photographed-Barn-in-America-self-referential-BS. For date night #1, we biked to Pat's Tap and shared a beer while enjoying SKEE-BALL. Doesn't sound awesome? Try it. On the bike ride home we lined our three speed cruisers up in a perfect paceline. Unfortunately, the sheer watt output ejected Michelle's wallet from her pants (unbeknownst to her). The next day she received a call from another cyclist who had found it strewn all over the road. The cash was gone, but everything else was recovered, and once again it was confirmed: cyclists are good people.