---
title: 'depravity and noises'
date: "2005-05-15 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

It sounds like a slight ticking noise, the kind of thing that after a few repetitions slinks into the shadows of white noise. But it doesn't slink away. It grows by measure louder and my body coils like an animal in the path of a tornado while my eyes dart frantically from side to side. I'm looking for myself; I'm looking to see what I will do and how I will do it. I already know, but I watch anyway. I'm terrified as I watch unfamiliar claws grasping. The sweat drips from my brow, icy and timeless and evaporates into a synthetic feeling of sorrow. The real sorrow has become much too much. Sometimes it's a look too intense, an expression too uncanny, a posture too unnatural, and sometimes it's a wince too unsightly. Sometimes I give away too much, and sometimes not nearly enough. He told me to get the hell out of dodge. Maybe he's right; maybe he's right for a normal man. A normal man would go somewhere else, do something else, and find other people with storm clouds subdued. I hit the streets with my pauper's pinion and scan for searching faces, wanting smirks that bade me, "Do come in. Look around. You'll find much here that you won't anywhere else." But anyone who's looking is already lost. Anyone I might meet in an alley in the middle of the night is already a vulture. I need a marketable skill; I need faculty and agency; I need hair gel and a different voice. Maybe I should get the hell out of dodge while I still can. Fuck that. Fuck this. Salt and ammonia; yard chemicals and smiles--spying with heavy eyelids in the window of my foul neighbor. I dig through people's trash now, clipping interesting photos and putting them on my wall or mailing them to friends. Charming, isn't it? I'm depraved.