---
title: 'howard'
date: "2005-06-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

This is the second draft of my story. It still needs to be different:

Tim Lupfer English 3300 June 22, 2005

Howard’s mother was the worst kind of whore—the beautiful, intelligent kind that could have been anyone and done anything. She was tall and elegant, with a body that moved in seamless, swooping lines, and gave rise to an uncanny grace that made her seem slightly out of place in any setting. She enjoyed the best of life—the best food, the best wine, the best literature, and the best drugs. In the morning it was Ezra Pound and her poetry circle; in the evening it was Charles Mingus and fine wine; and at night it was upscale hotels and sleazy New York stock brokers. The men had no appetite for dawdling, so it was a quick matter, and after they’d left she would often spend the night at the hotel, enjoying the finer aspects of one night rooms that cost more than a month’s rent at her tiny apartment. She made a fine living until a small bulge in her belly announced that her days of whoring were at an end. Somewhere in her wavering morality, she had promised herself that when the inevitable happened, she would call it quits. No one wanted a used up whore anyway. This left Aurora with the difficult prospect of finding a more permanent source of income. With wanton hyperbole, she pressed the news on a number of potential fathers until she had solicited enough in bribes to buy a quiet home in the country, where she would remove herself and her child from the dregs of the city. It was surprising what each of the men would pay to remain faithful husbands and fathers to the families who wanted to hear nothing of their shenanigans with pretty young whores. The home was Victorian and quite lovely, nestled cozily amidst several acres of dense forest. Aurora took the remaining money and used her growing knowledge of the stock market to make investments that would allow her to remain there indefinitely. Inexplicably, Howard was born on the floor of their no kitchen showing no apparent ill effects from his mother’s rampant drug abuse or promiscuous lifestyle. He looked and acted as a normal child, if only a bit quiet, rarely crying or making the curious noises that children are known to make. When he uttered his first words, and for some time showed no interest in ever uttering another, his mother’s concern was piqued. She brought him to an increasing number of specialists and herbal healers until it became apparent that he simply had no desire to speak. He was not stupid or inarticulate, quite the contrary, when he did speak it carried an unnaturally poetic pitch, illustrated in his first words, borrowed directly from the mouth of Ginsberg, “O Future, unimaginable God.” Howard was fifteen years old when he found his mother’s cold corpse in the living room, a needle still dangling from the crook of her arm. He tilted his head with a confused expression, and mumbled the question, “Mother, what are you doing?” When no answer came he stood there motionless for a considerable time before reaching out awkwardly and poking her. Her flesh was ice cold and lacked the suppleness that he had grown accustomed to—it reminded him of the gardens during the winter. He thought it unwise to touch her again and went to the other room to practice the violin, a hobby that he had picked up recently from his mother after her hands became too jittery to contemplate the notes. Although he’d only been playing a short time, Howard delighted in his violin. While the pauses and inconsistencies of time bred a crippling and piercing anxiety, the violin allowed a fluid escape, a place where his mind and body worked freely to traverse the jagged recesses of his soul. It was the nearest that he wandered to freedom. After he finished playing he went back into the living room and found his mother in the same position that he had left her in. “Mother, I’m hungry, are you going to prepare lunch soon?” Howard flushed with frustration as she didn’t move or make any attempt to answer. He thought, bitterly, that it was a clever rouse to trick him into speaking. For the most part he hated speaking; he hated the dry feeling that the mouth acquired after uttering too many meaningless syllables and the unsettling thought, “Did I say something that I didn’t mean? Did I say something foul?” “Mother, you really smell quite awful, I wish that you’d at least get out of that chair to bathe.” He turned briskly and strode to the kitchen where he spent the next hour reading a book on the art of sautØed liver. His first attempt at cooking was quite successful, and he mused at the idea that he’d avoided it for so long. After feasting, he returned to the living room with a bottle of Febreeze where he found his mother still in her now familiar posture. “Mother, I’m sorry, but I cannot bear the odor any longer,” he said apologetically as he sprayed her quite liberally, “You really must do something with yourself.” Howard cursed himself as he realized his mother’s trick was working—he was speaking more to her in her silence than he ever had before. The next morning he awoke with a start. He knew his mother was still where she had been the day before because he could smell her. After showering, he put on his robe and went to speak frankly with her. “Mother, this has really grown quite ridiculous. I understand what you are doing and what you desire—I will speak more earnestly and with less apprehension. I will tell you about a dream that I’ve had. It was very peculiar and left me with the vague impression that I had been drugged. I was in a disconcertingly small room with no apparent entrance or exit. It was at least twice as tall as it was long or wide and existed as a uniform and pristine white that I’ve really no notion of in reality—the floor bled seamlessly into the ceiling, and I had only to trust that somewhere in between there were walls. From above, a single, artificial point of light uniformly illuminated the room, giving the sense that the entire thing was constructed out of an elaborate series of mirrors. There was nothing else; there was nothing to touch and I grew consumed with the idea of the room. It was some time before I paused to consider that I, in some way, existed inside of the room. I could not see myself, but I must have been there. I had no agency and no reflection. In my uncertainty I thought, ‘If I don’t exist then I should be able to leave the room.’ When I couldn’t will myself to leave, I knew that I was, if nothing more, an entity in the act observing the room. Then, quite suddenly, I was there—huddled in the middle of the floor and I realized that I was my own puppeteer. I moved those unfamiliar and gaudy limbs in a way that could best be described as shaking. Music infiltrated the room, quietly at first. Just as I began to hear it more clearly, I awoke, quite startled, and in my mind I had the words, ‘I began to exist only in ideas.’” Howard winced as he realized that his mother had not been paying attention to his dream. In an unusual display of emotion, he stormed out of the room, screaming in an unfamiliar warble, “Why won’t you speak?!” The next morning Howard woke up and found himself bounding out of bed and into the living room, shouting before he even before he reached the room, “Mother I’ve had quite enough of this! I’m sending you away until you will speak to me again!” Howard had remembered the night before that every Thursday his mother brought the things from the house that they no longer needed to the street, where a truck would pick them up and they would be rid of them forever. It was early Thursday morning, and Howard had decided that the smell of his mother and her unwillingness to acknowledge him were too much to suffer any longer. He pleaded with her in a very new voice, begging, “Mother, please, I’m going to have to be rid of you if you don’t cease with this nonsense!” He felt something unusual roll down his cheek and looked around, confused, before pulling his mother’s terrible body next to him and dragging it across the room. The texture made him so uneasy that he almost dropped her right there in the middle of the living room. However, he knew very well that she was being stubborn and he didn’t want to have to sidestep her each time he entered the room. As it was, he had been avoiding the living room for the past three days and was growing quite weary of finding alternate routes throughout the house. The trek down to the road was a considerable one, so he paused on the front porch to drink lemonade and contemplate the quickest way to transport her. His mind flashed to a wheelbarrow that he had seen her use the previous summer while doing some yard work. After retrieving the wheelbarrow he found that, in her stubbornness, she was keeping her limbs quite rigid so as to make it difficult for him to put her in the wheelbarrow. “Mother,” he said snidely, “if you want to stay then I suggest you end this foolishness immediately.” She refused, so he began the long walk down to the road, the wheelbarrow creaking as the early morning light flittered through the dense forest.