---
title: 'FACEBOOK quiz perfection'
date: "2009-12-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

day two. selectively parsing existence. weather shifting, the patterns in the sky becoming...unalterable, passing extremes by way of extremities. ex-normalities. it is late in the day and I am sitting in the cold part of the house, absorbing sound and trying to focus my eyes. changes have been occurring in my mind. but I am sure that there is little difference between my mind and the mind of any stranger. shifting, chemically, waxing with age, postnaturally-premeditative. supernaturally conceived and bled, bleeding reaching with words and energies. "this is the worst day..." vibrational. moonwitch. the radio growing toxic in my mind as I begin to recognize even the obscure, working my way towards FACEBOOK quiz perfection. the thing in the other room moves while I write. nocturnal and ambitious, it waits for the glint of its eye to be reflected in the moonlight as it wends its way through the sky. I am fascinated. this thing if fascinated. noise, infuriating. the slow cadence of my mind speech dying in echoes off the wall of my own brain as I try to resurrect some semblance of GOD and its corresponding fantasy of the unending ephemeral, the paradoxical continuation of frailty under the crushing weight of its blasphemy. waiting to use words. patiently as they line up next to each other and I am ill thinking that its result is the result of culminated existence. I cannot word like this. debilitated by the frequency of its iterations. the consequences, bouncing...uhhhhhhhhhhmmmm...rapturous? this day. this penetrating forgetful cohabitation of the contrary as illusory representations and restatements of self and their subsequent assessment of hindrances prejudices the watchful plastic eyes of foam baited strangers. HEY. that's all. my plastic boots stepping lightly on tiled floor, measuring the approximate width of each tile by landing my foot centrally. "pray with care". it is night. the day that began late, became cold and then ended with insane footfall.