---
title: "purely biographical and therefore irrelevant: part I"
date: "2007-12-21 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I had a friend once, who gave me a premature understanding of everything that I would find in the ocean--the epistemology, the staggering discord, the deterioration of principal and the undercurrent of religion. Still, it swept past me, a maniacal shifting mass with textures hypocritical, sublime and dark. Memories becoming fractional in a maddening torrent of mental agility: think of a way to describe everything and nothing all at once--a head buried in the sand verbally calculating the obliquity of the ecliptic. A consequent weariness of body and spirit, audibly projecting half nothings in blackened timespace. Oh, shallow pretense for immoderation of spiritual sentiment: it is my faulty wiring! Making no explanation for one's absence in the presence of another's less than Merry Fucking...exquisite. I am completely unable to access that failed moment's inspiration, how the n-dimensional analogue of the mind's square and cube begins to project viability on to the surface of the inconceivable. I have only considered dreamily such radical alterations of dignity and indignity, while precisely beginning to think this: I have no means, I have no means. And it becomes a choice: get better or get worse, with the gutting indignity that it is no more and no less a choice than baked or sauteed. Tho once proclaimed that I have inspired that ubiquitous circumstance of being thusly quitted. Which makes no mention of the epistemological differentiation between savage and calculated, whose faulty wiring is owed to the same concept just as convex is to concave. In a fractional dissertation she said: you've changed, (but so have I). I wrote or spoke articulately but meandered into the realm of over-production and false sentiment, belittling that original intent bloodied by its human palpability. Thus, the hypercube. The absurditron. The different ways of likening the human mind to concepts that make it seem larger and more complex than: fuck, swallow, rest, and repeat. Take one out of the equation and it begins to short circuit, to either mellow or intensify to fractured extremes of anti-propulsion. Thinking, being, radically shifting into devoured sections of wan flesh, heaped in calm, cool indifference. Falsely started efforts to assert control in either direction, being alternately repelled and repellent when all that remains is the want of one's self. Which inspiration: hand on breast? Dick in Napalm? Dick in breast on hand in Napalm? Here is a list: bribe the florist, fuck renewable energy, fall in love, visit the everglades with a corpse, learn math, pinpoint radiation, look up autochthonic.