---
title: 'the black cat'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

This morning as I was getting ready for work Beth called to me from the kitchen. This was unusual as neither one of us is particularly fond of yelling or communicating in any way from distant rooms. "There is a cat in here," she announced. I walked to the kitchen and there it was--black and small, but seemingly fully grown. It calmly hunkered down in the middle of the floor, acting as if it had been living with us for years. I leaned awkwardly over it. Hello cat. I was interested in this thing that had appeared so mysteriously in our house. Strange black cat. Strange, ghostly apparition. Immediately I knew that this cat was cursed, and that it carried with it the power to destroy the lives of the people that it encountered. Still, I was charmed. "What's its name?" I implored. "Give it a name," I demanded when I did not receive an answer. I grabbed its front paws to see if it had claws. It did not have any, or refused to use them on me. Even though cats cannot do anything with cow's milk, we gave it a cup of cow's milk. It's just what you do. After staring at the strange cat for much too long I decided to continue with my morning. I went to the shower. The cat followed me. It sat anxiously at the door. I am allergic to cats, and it was especially true with this cat. I sneezed and blew my nose. The cat meant nothing to me but I could not take my eyes from it. Those demonic pale green eyes looked back at me unflinchingly. It was as if it was peering into my soul and what it found there was almost comically fragile.

Morning. It is cold. Beautiful September fades away as we slip into the mire of darkening days and drizzling skies. I have not seen the sun in what seems like an eternity. Three days ago we woke up and it was freezing. Today it is not as noticeable. The heat has been turned on and we are slowly acclimating. I think about what to say when everything is a shifting mass of colors, textures and space, when my mind begins to conflate notions of I and we with stars and triangles. I have slept well this week. Not as well last night, but still much better than I had been sleeping a few weeks ago. One of the changes has been me. My wildness of thought, once crippling, attacks me much less frequently. Still, there are times when I am behaving normally and then suddenly, without warning, my mind is disordered and suspicious. We live with these cycles, these fluctuations that deviate independently from level and from each other. I watch her face. Study it, sometimes waiting for it to betray the idea that has been lingering in my mind already, while other times I want only to know what is hiding behind it. I know these rhythms. They are not often reflected in the tone of my voice or the gestures that I make with my hands. The words become palpable, striking viciously because there is nothing in their delivery that matches--no, coalesces--with their savageness. I am unstable, acting on impulses almost like a child.

The cat appeared again this morning. Strange demonic cat. It grows more vicious with each passing day, more agitated. Slowly consuming, filling the room with its baleful energy. 

Most days we love each other. We say nice things. She makes my sandwiches. Sometimes she makes me snacks to bring to work or for activities. Lately we have ridden our bikes together to the park. Sitting on the play equipment watching other strange parents behave like buffoons. It is infectious. The other night I went to the store to get milk and all kinds of soap. We were out of dish soap, dishwasher-machine soap, and handsoap. Also, toothpaste, mouthwash and milk. When I arrived I parked my bike next to a police officer. He was giving directions to the Target Center to three fratboys with slicker hair and strong perfume. After they left he turned to me and asked, "What's going on at the Target Center tonight?" I don't know. I panicked. I knew that I wasn't being interrogated, but something about the interaction seemed intrusive. I walked quickly in the other direction. On my way home I heard a crash behind me. I'd neglected to properly strap the milk in place. It was in the middle of Lasalle. I got home to the comfort of my livingroom, my life. We dislike many of the same things: noise, people, commercial spaces, mind control, the awkward subterranean bumbling of doped out adults.

It is time to get ready for work.