---
title: 'soon, larry.'
date: "2010-01-07 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I left the house today on the big dummy to do some shopping. I made it about a half a mile before turning around to retrieve the pugsley. I think back to the years that I rode 23mm tires exclusively through the winter. "they cut through the snow." sort of. if there's fresh, untouched snow with a clean, flat surface below the snow, that might be true. unfortunately that happens once a year for about an hour and a half. the rest of the winter seems to be much like today: frozen lumps of ice beneath a couple inches of sugary snow. the pugsley handled wonderfully, as it has for 98% of the winter so far. I was wary of the cars around me as they seemed to be crashing into each other and spinning out at an almost unprecedented rate. by the time I they seemed to be crashing into each other and spinning out at an almost unprecedented rate. by the time I reached the uptown rainbow there were fire trucks lined up on colfax just waiting for the next crash / explosion / immolation. on the way home I took the greenway to the cedar lake trail. it made me wonder why anyone would travel by automobile in this area. the trail had been plowed recently and was in pristine condition. the cedar lake trail had not been plowed, but was still in quite wonderful condition. I said hello to a lady walking her dog and after crossing the train tracks stopped to play with another dog that was out for a walk. the contrast was striking. on the roadways people were revving their engines and trying not to kill each other (though seemingly doing a very poor job of it), while on the bike path strangers were talking and dogs were frolicking. beyond the inexcusable irresponsibility of driving an automobile, I would think the joy and humanity offered by not being in a car would be worthwhile to more people. the other thing that I have recently realized is that I encounter a disproportionately large number of older women walking on the trail in the worst weather. while young and middle aged people are whining about the impossibility of existing in such a "harsh" climate, old women are out seizing the opportunity to experience something remarkable. I often feel like I am holding a wonderful secret, but when I try to share it I am met with aggression and misunderstanding. automobiles have been a part of human existence for a relatively short amount of time. life was conducted for a very long time without them. that's all.