---
title: "to the movies"
date: "2008-12-26 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

It is idiot culture. We circle around the parking lot. Plastic molded beasts inching along, all trying to fit within the forty percent of the parking lot nearest to eighty percent of the establishments. The minutes tick off as I watch cars go up one row, down the next, up the next, and then circle back around to repeat the cycle. I gaze off in the distance at the hundreds of spaces, the asphalt landscape made barren by its implication of an inconvenient two minute and twenty second walk. Hah ha! Frightening blind accelerations, lurching forward like a beast displaying its teeth and testicles, headlights surging as the suspension bends under the weight of its seemingly random movements. I am terrified of the way that people behave, completely disregarding the humanity of the things that scurry before their mighty metal frames. C limb. One. Two. Turn the key. And suddenly you are in a land of make believe. A fantasy dripping with ego and selfishness. Like the lurid sexual fantasies played out in the glimpse of the shadowed spot on her lower back where blouse and skirt briefly part ways. She bends, stoops, begs for only that the fantastic be nothing more and nothing less than imaginative. And children strut about with guns in their pants, baggy, drooping jackets with faux-fox hoods and aluminum paneled breastplates. "Fuck you." They were just waiting for the slightest provocation to utter the fantastic words that at once transform the powerfully mundane into a candy striped abomination of sin and rejection--­the ever spiraling rejectionist projection of pretend origination. Ha hah. And they speak with their modified prance-gait, "Bitch, you think you can reject me from your barbie doll fantasies? No way. No way. That's garbage. I don't want nothing to do with it." An so on. Ad infinitum. But all along we're all praying to fucking god that someone will just look at us. The girl two rows in front of with silver strands strung like christmas lights around her waist. Please god, look at me. With their whispers, their stupid laughter, their violent fantasies played out for their mute imaginations on project- o-tron...whimper...please look at me....please. 

\*** 

Christmas day. I'm filled with emotion. Perhaps it is only empathy. Overcome with kinship for the remainder of the sorrowful world. Transcending religious boundaries, rites, passages, and presages. Instead, simply alike with everyone who suffers, everyone who grows old and dies with nothing to say. Feeling everything. Aware. As I grow older I find myself drawn to the thought of weeping without cause, compromise or consolation. I feel joy. I feel sorrow. I feel them at the same time, a twisting cataclysmic meltdown of psychology. How much love do I have for that stranger living his days in poverty and filth, separated from god or its made-believe alternative. And yet how I suffer fear and revulsion! Unable to speak even a word of consolation, to give a glance of pity instead of arrogance. 

\*** 

And it happens that I am perpetually ambivalent, unable to settle on a single way to feel about anything. I attach myself to a sentiment out of habit rather than sincerity, never escaping the notion that I could be equally pleased feeling just the opposite. My dreams become hideous and I wake up in darkness rather than sunlight.