---
title: 'letter writing'
date: "2009-04-21 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

It is evening. Lately I have been writing letters. Some unnamed. Some particular, focused, intelligible and full of vitality. Interwoven vestiges. Pristine. Absolute, talking as though comfortably sprawled out as the only two known elements of a chaotic life. Tipped gazing. 'Hello, I am a stranger to you but no longer fearful of being a stranger.' The wet warm embrace of newness. Messy at times. Awkward. What do I say? When I am writing I often find myself thinking in questions. Are there too many? Does it seem overloaded? Bearing? Prism? And so forth? But then the questions stop. They are not written to the person to whom they are addressed, but rather as curiosities from which I might form an idea of something communicable. It is just that: most often I feel almost painfully compelled to communicate but have no ability to do so. Appropriate topics and methods of verbal sharing. Show and tell. I explain the parts of my body as best as I can, highlighting tasks at which it is useful and ideas that I have for future exploration of its utility. This is my arm, for instance, with it I can produce the following...and as I watch her eyes glaze over I realize that she is not interested. This object/idea does not interest her so I move on until we find a series of known patterns, like tracing outlines into a sketchbook. When I draw a face it is always the same face. So I become stranger. Lukewarm towards myself, explaining as if it were an historical instrument. I saw myself on television, watching myself have another dream about tornadoes. Always when I am dreaming of tornadoes on television I am aware of it, and furthermore, I am aware watching myself that I am aware within. I reduce this to simply: I see myself being swept up in a tornado, my no-longer-flailing body drifting back to the earth as a macabre snowflake--unique, but almost indiscernible. To a new person I explain my name. Nothing more. Circumstance takes its proper place from thence on and instead of a name I represent the singular idea that preceded the name. This is different for everyone. Eye color. A particular outfit. A stance. A sound. A smell. It becomes cemented as the unifying characteristic only after the name has been fully explained.