---
title: 'fiction?'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

*Fiction*? Maybe. I talked to only one person today: Dan. I was leaving the house. It was a beautiful day outside and I needed to get away, think about things in a less hostile environment. I cannot remember what he said to me. I answered with my generic talking-to-Dan dialogue pieces. "Sure is a nice day out today...well, have a nice day..." and so on. I remembering locking the front door, turning around walking a couple of steps and then hearing something squeaking. Metallic. I thought that it was a misadjusted rear disc brake on my bicycle. I stopped, thinking that I would go back inside and adjust it before leaving. That is when I became aware of him standing behind me. "Oh, hi Dan(!)" In my mind I play the clip with an exclamation point. In reality it most likely existed as indecipherable muttering. In between the doors there was a snow leopard upgrade disc from apple. I thought it might fix my ailing computer. There were two things in the mailbox: something from TCF and something from Bryn Mawr Little School. The envelope was handwritten and included both of our names. I did not open it until just a few minutes ago. I was immediately impressed with the texture of the pamphlet and the ethnic diversity represented in just five pages. Hello Dan. I do not recall if I spoke to Dan. I think that I did. In my mind I certainly talked to him. I may have even turned to face him. I rode down the steps, hoping that I would not crash immediately in front of him. Perhaps I did not. The man at the liquor store was unquestionably hip. Thick black glasses and bearded, beaded hair with a slightly back-tilted posture. I guess I also talked to this man. "Hey, how's it going?" Falsely jubilant response. Saxophone? I bought a four pack of Guinness and Bell's best brown ale. Yet, somehow now I am drinking Amstel light and listening to Bob Dylan. When I was somewhere in my twenties I read his book. I kept wanting it to be about something. It wasn't. It was. It could have been. It probably wasn't. It didn't make any sense, and not in the broad sense of this idea doesn't make any sense. No, not even a single line of it made any sense. It was linguistic, typographical fiction. Nonetheless, my desire to have read it outweighed my inability to comprehend a single word or idea. I read it, marked pages, underlined things, pieced together some kind of narrative that had nothing to do with a plot and everything to do with my intention. Fiction. What is fiction? Recently Beth and I watched Storytelling. It is the third time that I have seen it. The first two times were in college. I wrote a paper on it. For the past twenty minutes I have been trying to find that paper. It had something to do with fiction and pornography. My search failed. I did not find it. However, I found the introduction to another paper that I wrote on pornography. It read:

> Before I begin, I must caution the reader of this text that he or she is about to experience a most resolute kind of trash--a "reduced" brand of Shakespeare scholarship wedded both to a trashy author and most contemptible material. Pornography and "its refusal to educate" herein become the victor and I, shackled in varying shades of complicity, trudge along as the slumming virtuoso (Burt 16). Oh, it's going to be fucking trash alright. It's going to be dirty, derisive, and a "[celebration] of delinquency" (Ross 201). It's going to be witches fingering each other, Macbeth fantasizing of a Banquo led orgy, Romeo and Juliet tag team masturbating, and a masochistic Paris stabbing himself with a meat hook. There will be plenty of arterial spray, rowdy ejaculation, and moments to reflect on exactly how low Shakespeare has been dragged and how little we have to learn from it. My professor will shake her head at my disparaging lack of professionalism and fundamental morality while elsewhere we will toast my insolence, relax in thrift store recliners, sip miller high life, and watch reruns of Beavis and Butthead. This is our new twenty-first century latex breast implant dick sucking Shakespeare--we built him, now we'll see if we have anything to learn from him.

Why did I post that? No reason. To account for my time. To prove that in those moments I was doing and experiencing, and that somewhere in the distant past I could construct a complete sentence. Fuck that. She told me that she did not leave me. I was misunderstanding. I was incorrectly parsing reality. Could it be? Could it have been? She told me about a series of things that happened last night of which I had no immediate recollection, but knew were true upon hearing about them. Small things. Pieces of conversations. A few words here and there. My mind is slipping. I am forgetting. Parsing. Interpolating. But she left with him this morning. I watched it happen. No explanation. Not a single word shared between us from nine am to eleven. I was sitting in the bedroom reading Tropic of Capricorn, pretending to sleep, watching the indeterminate revolution of the second hand. It is twelve hours later and during that time I have talked to either zero or two people. I have taken two showers, had a cup of tea and several cups of coffee. I have listened to Bob Dylan, The Decemberists, David Bowie, Will Oldham and Radio K. I discovered that the squeak that I thought was coming from the desk chair was actually coming from the desk. Standing, I can press the front of the desk and elicit the quiet chirping noise that has been driving me insane for the past week. It happens reliably. When I am happy, mad, insane, tired or paying my bills online it still happens. I can test it scientifically and be sure of my interpretation. Everything else? I have only one chance. Then it is left to memory and imagination. As time passes it bleeds quietly from one to the other. So these are words. Nothing more. I have no idea what happened. Maybe I was wrong. Probably I was wrong.