---
title: Vacation part four
date: 2013-11-13 22:28:50
template: post.html
photo: http://slowtheory.openphoto.me.s3.amazonaws.com/custom/201310/P1060505-504e74_350x250xCR.jpg
---

After spending a delightful and carefree evening at the lodge, we awoke to the stark reality of needing to find a solution to our *predicament*. Michelle hobbled up and down a hill in the parking lot to eliminate any ambiguity about her ability to continue on the trail. She could not continue. My slight pang of regret at ending our hike prematurely was outweighed tenfold by the obviousness of the correct choice. To recap: we were in Lutsen, on MEA weekend, with no vacancy signs ceremoniously erected all around us, and without transportation or a high degree of mobility. We proceeded to do what the trip had already proved was a valid solution to just about any problem.--we crossed our fingers and hoped that the kindness of strangers would get us back to our car.

Since it was Friday, I declared that absolutely no one would be leaving the lodge to go south, and that our best bet would be to ask for a ride only as far as the highway. It was two miles, but with a nearly impossible rate of descent for an injured knee, especially if my suspicions of and IT band *thing* were correct. We skulked around the parking lot, pouncing on a handful of people who were loading bags into their vehicles. On our third attempt, we encountered a gentleman who was not immediately leaving, but offered to give us a ride to the road anyway. That was the type of good will that defined our experiences on this trip.

We reached the highway and planted ourselves in a spot where motorists would be able to conveniently pull over, trying to look the part that we were so convincingly playing--two pathetic hikers dressed in technical gear who might be foolishly optimistic, but completely harmless. This plan was obviously the most sensible, but I was antsy and declared that we needed to start moving south within twenty minutes, even at a 2mph walk. Scores of vehicles whizzed by without stopping. The pathetic sight of stranded hikers in the rain was compelling, but on this day--a relatively pleasant one--empathy was not easily piqued.

We started walking south with the vague intention of reaching Tofte. It would be around a ten mile walk if we weren't able to find a ride. When groups of vehicles passed, we turned, stuck out our thumbs, and hoped for the best. It was surprising how naturally we settled into the role of *hitchhikers*. Just as hopelessness was becoming overwhelming, a truck approached from the opposite direction, slowing as it neared us. "Is he stopping for us?" we wondered aloud. In an uncharacteristic show of optimism, I declared that he certainly must be. After we scurried across the road, he asked where we were headed. *South.* He told us he would take us as far as Little Marais. I didn't ask where that was, and despite my unfamiliarity with both its location and amenities, I was happy to jump into the back of his truck.

Our new friend Paul was friendly and outgoing. We had a lot to talk about as he's an avid mountain biker, trail builder, former bike shop owner, and craftsman. The drive was so pleasant that I scarcely noticed when we passed Silver Bay. Paul announced that he needed some things in Duluth and would take us the entire distance. While I was exuberant Michelle was rocking back and forth with her head in her hands. A moment passed before she asked, "Paul, I don't feel so well...will you pull over?" After momentarily struggling with the child locks, she climbed out of the window and began vomiting. 