---
title: 'summer'
date: "2011-08-18 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: ['Life', 'Cycling']
tags: 'alleycats'
---

intensely, time passing. rewording/breathing/(joint)articulation. the other day I turned and asked, *wait, didn't that happen a week ago?* yes. *but...uhhh...*I had no idea, and once it had been explained to me I had absolutely no faith in its chronological integrity. time has been passing. I have been enjoying myself. we have been growing/changing/becoming increasingly beautiful. this, bracketed by the passing farcical interactions that dominate and transform (homogenize) THE LANDSCAPE of the others. [watching youtube clips] so I moved. this happened in July and I probably posted a picture of my bicycle laden with a couch or something utterly pretentious like that. ha ha. look at me?! I have started running again. I have started lifting weights again. I have (sort of) started reading again. symptomatically pressing towards autumn and the new itinerary, for which I am compulsively thrilled. the place where I moved is a structure with its own smell and character. repulsive/lo(v|n)ely/compelling/edifying/human. I do not mind the space. it is large, the floors are wood, it is *sound*. the bedroom, much of the space in fact, has been sculpted from her fantastic, energetic, blindly compatible imagination. I like that part of it. sometimes though, my neighbors get arrested during the night, or smoke one million cigarettes until I close the window in disgust, or fill the yard with their (all inclusive) TRASH. I eat salad from her garden and we walk back and forth in eight minutes. the bank is nearby, the coop is an uneventful mile north, and our bed is AMAZING.  
  
last weekend was powderhorn-24. I volunteered for the very worst section of the night because I wanted it. I wanted my hours to be smashed together so that I could ride recklessly toward an end without having to conceive of doing the same thing again in a couple hours. I'm also the sort that begins slow and labored and stays that way for a while. I spent the first seven hours of the race talking, drinking beer, napping, eating burritos, porch-dwelling, admiring the night*sky*, periodically yelling, and being maybe a little anxious about the whole damn thing. I wanted to perform well. I knew that I could be fast for that length of time. a lot of races I go into expecting only to finish (if lucky). ten minutes before my shift began the sil(igh|en)t(n)ing ceased and the rain poured forth from the sky as if it was ANGRY. I watched, maybe delighted. I watched anxiously for my teammate to return. she did. I was in the rain, suddenly very cold. I rode fast, drilled a pothole, kept going, cursing myself for not bringing a jacket. one lap in I had to do a lap on a nice ride for a bonus. the speed plummeted from 23mph to 20mph. I pedaled furiously, wasting energy because I knew that I could. the second lap I got a flat. I was near an aid station and limped it there, running the last few hundred meters with my bike swinging at my side. focus. deep breath. disarm the drunk guy. the rest of the time was methodical. there were very people riding during the night. it was peaceful. periodically I passed people. almost never was I passed. the fast people were sleeping or taking it easy. as morning descended the rain began to subside and I passed the proverbial torch, went home and took a shower.  
  
round two began at midday. more relaxing on the porch before *my hour*. I wanted four laps in an hour. that's twenty miles. I was riding a heavy touring bike with a generator hub. whatever. no excuses. it's only an hour. I rolled in at 4:01 with a total time of 62 minutes. I was satisfied. I was tired. then hot laps. fast-fast-fast. I told everyone that my capacity for 15 minute laps was diminished. I flatted again on the last lap, stopping twice to inflate my tire before gathering at the finish line for the postride festivities. our team did great. I had fun. we didn't finish particularly well (tying for 5th and 6th in the coed team division), but it was a fantastic experience and I'm proud of everyone who rode for us.  
  
the weather has been beautiful. we have been sewing. michelle's purple bike is near flawless. we're going to south dakota in september. our friends emily&kai had their baby and emily is showing that they are seriously badass parents ([proof here][1]). I'm trying to organize a gravel double century for october.

 [1]: http://www.npr.org/blogs/babyproject/137299791/emily-grace-whebbe