---
title: 'the baby'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

This is baby. The baby. Clementine. I started living with her in June. I didn't know anything about babies at that time. The first time I picked her up I held  her like a sandbag or a sack of potatoes. Except really fragile. It was a  strange sensation. I didn't like being around children. I was jealous of their  curiosity and freedom. Inclination. Whimsy. Acting on the impulses that we  gradually learn to disregard as adults. At first I would only talk to her in my normal voice with words that I would use while talking to an adult. I thought  it was insulting to approach it in any other way. We didn't know each other  very well before we started living at the same house. She was nine months  old and I was twenty-eight years old. Our birthdays are separated by only a  couple of days. She wasn't there all of the time. Sometimes she was with her  father and other times Beth took her to her parents for a few days at a time. We looked at each other. Often she screamed and lumbered slowly in the  opposite direction. It hurt my feelings more than I allowed anyone to know. I didn't like that she didn't like me. I bought things for her thinking that maybe she'd like me more. Things that might facilitate our spending more time together and her forming an attachment to me. It was strange to be part of her life with no real attachment on either side. Babies don't understand the intricacies of going to work and paying for things. To her I was just a man who periodically appeared in her space to whom she showed little affection. I thought a lot about what she thought of me. It frustrated me that she didn't immediately like me for no particular reason, that she wasn't drawn to me like children are to parents. I was forced to grapple with the reality that I was not her parent, that I never would be. I often pouted about it. I would try to pick her up and she would cry. I would morosely retreat to the other room. I learned quickly that babies also don't understand pouting. She clung to her mother and our lives seemed to be veering in different directions. I felt insulted. It became increasingly important to me that I form a relationship with her. I started watching her more often, noting particularly her habits and things that she liked. When she is tired she violently bites her blanket. She likes things that move or make sounds and packaging. Plastic, paper, whatever. The thing inside of the package is almost never as exciting as the packaging. Recently she has started pointing at things. I don't know what it means, but I've started responding by telling her what the thing is called. "That's a stove." "That's a clock." "Owls!" She is afraid of owls. One night she pointed at the owl clock on the wall above the couch. I held her up close to it. Her body went stiff, then she started kicking and screaming. Now when it is night she watches the owls on the wall to make sure that they are still high above her and have not swooped down to carry her off. She thinks my name is Ken. When we were first getting to know each other I would take her running in the Burley. It pulled to the left. She was unhappy and whiny, only occasionally amused by the squirrels that lined the cedar lake trail. I gave up quickly. "She doesn't like running with me." Later I pulled her with my bicycle. That was better. Perhaps only because it was shorter, but she did not whine as much and sometimes seemed to be enjoying herself. Lately I have started taking her to parks and pushing her in the swing. Small steps. One day I proudly assembled her high chair only to smash her fingers in it moments later. It vacillates. I vacillate. I still don't see her often. When she needs to sleep, when she is hurt, lonely or scared I am not the person she wants. Likewise, when I am tired I just want her to be quiet and go to sleep. Sometimes though, when I get out of the shower she is teetering precariously at the door, waiting for me. Goodmorning. I like you. Small steps.