---
title: "in the province of v-----: part I"
date: "2008-02-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

It is also true, though you made no mention of it, that I am afraid of my own thoughts. Not only that, the fear is no more sophisticated than a child's. But, do you believe it? You forced me into the tornado dream again. It's been years since I've had it, since I've felt the terror of helplessness as my world is ripped apart. It is a shame because we are both brilliant, and only becoming moreso as the years pass in silence. If only we could review notes, contemplate further those curiosities that we explored in our infantile adulthood. Oh, how I've changed my opinion on certain matters! And how much quicker it would have been if only you had said one thing and then I another. We could have done in moments what it has taken me years to conceive (of which, even now in my inhuman confidence, I consider with a degree of uncertainty). Perhaps I am a fool! Perhaps all of this thinking is wrongheaded. No, no the old way of thinking was wrongheaded. It was mechanical and I was merely a projection of a flawed idea. I have escaped that now because I am no longer projecting an idea. You would certainly call me a liar, and even this proclamation lends evidence enough of the contrary, but if you could listen to me speak you would certainly be convinced. I really am quite charming now. You would smile at my timely and clever remarks. But even this I would sacrifice for our secret society of freethinkers. I would reduce and intellectualize myself to the point and be willing to accept you on the same terms. Can our humanities really be so overbearing as to make this impossible? Could we not momentarily suspend them so as to benefit from the great genius produced in the wake of our brilliance? Though I secretly concede that you have been the more intelligent, would you not benefit from my slightly ignorant but well directed questions? We mocked them because the official stance was that they were better than we were. Perhaps they sensed pity, or even contempt, but I doubt it. Mostly they were oblivious as we carried on at their expense. And how we laughed as they inaccurately assessed the weight of a moment! ascribing nothingness where there was brilliance and unfolding intensity from the most trivial endeavors! How meaningless their awful, petty lives! I proceed alone now because no one has your good sense, your learned way of thinking. They are incapable of properly articulating words or allowing any amount of subtlety. Instead they speak from the television and wait for applause. No, no­--that should not be it at all! I miss your brilliance. Sadder still, is that mine will go perpetually unobserved and perhaps not have ever existed at all. Maybe it was only our way of thinking, an idea whose indulgence allowed this projection. After all, do I see brilliance any longer when I look in the mirror? Do I simply scrutinize the slight changes in my features? My youth has begun its gradual dissolution, and I, my tedious regeneration as principal rather than ideal.