---
title: 'poor planning executed flawlessly'
date: "2010-06-20 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Cycling
tags: 'Gravel Grinders'
---

My brain has not been working well lately. Yesterday was the [Westside Dirty Benjamin][1]. I prepared by staying out too late the previous night, drinking beer, and eating a smaller breakfast than I would have eaten on a normal day. I have had trouble sleeping lately, falling asleep late and not *settling in* until it's just about time to wake up. I woke up at 6:30am feeling nauseous. We needed to be leaving by 7am, and even that was pushing it a bit close. I ate a piece of toast and tossed three granola bars in my seatbag. *Good enough. *I planned on riding the first fifty miles conservatively, waiting for Watertown to refuel and wake up. Ryan was kind enough to give us a ride to the race start, but I could not figure out a way to get home except by riding. It was going to be a long day.  
  
We arrived moments before the race start. Alex was even less prepared and went in search of breakfast. Everyone was lined up and ready to go. Alex was missing. I didn't worry about it as I figured he would just catch up. However, the race started by riding through a bunch of random ditches and ATV trails, not ejecting on to a marked road until after four miles. At that point I figured I wouldn't see him again that day. I thought he would just go home. Once we were on the road I started moving up. I had started at the back as I had no ambitions of performing well or getting sucked into a pack that was riding too fast for me. For one hundred miles, well fed and rested I might have considered it, but when presented with at least an extra 20-25 miles and poor preparation it would have been asking for disaster. Eventually I found a group of ten or twelve people that were riding just a bit slower than what I would have been riding alone. It was perfect. The wind was in our faces and the combination of the draft and riding with a slow group meant that I could conserve a lot of energy. I was only thinking about Watertown at that point. Around twenty-five miles that group started to splinter. I went ahead towards two riders who seemed to be working well together. After a few miles I went to the front to take my turn. I didn't raise the speed, but they both fell off the back and I was on my own. I rode this way for quite a while, picking up a few solo riders along the way but not encountering any groups.  
  
With about fifteen miles to Watertown I caught up with a woman who seemed to be riding about the same speed but trying much harder. I decided that I would ride with her for a while as I was sick of navigating and thought it might be a good opportunity to practice talking to people. There wasn't a lot of conversation. It could have been any of the following: a.) I am not good at talking, b.) she was trying too hard, c.) I'm not very interesting, or d.) she found it an awkward situation since she would rejoin the *man* she was riding with at the checkpoint. In any case, she continued to ride with me even after I'd conceded that it was a bad idea and pulled ahead.  
  
The bad ideas continued in Watertown. I stopped at the coffee shop, but only grabbed *a coffee*. Really? The one stop on the route and I decided that in spite of only have a couple of granola bars *a coffee *would suffice? Yeah. I even thought about going back to the grocery store on the way out of town, but decided against it. Oh, and while at a four way stop in town I rolled a stop sign with a cup of coffee in my hand and was yelled at by a motorist. And you know what? He was right. I didn't completely stop. It was the only stop sign that I rolled the entire day and I chose to do it where it could reflect poorly on both cyclists and the event. Sigh. I'd like to say that was the end of my brain malfunctioning, but it wasn't.  
  
I rode by myself for a while until picking up another small group. As we neared Winsted it became apparent that we weren't going through the town. At this point I needed to get some food and decided to leave the group and ride into Winsted. It was at least another thirty miles to the finish and I didn't have any food. The detour to Winsted was a lot longer than I had anticipated, adding about seven miles to the route. While it was a wise decision to stop it was also plagued by a number of bad decisions. First: I purchased the most idiotic food that made me feel thoroughly ill (a fruit pie was among them). Second: I dumped out two full bottles of water to fill up two bottles with powerade. I thought that the third was full of water, or more appropriately, I didn't think enough to realize that it obviously wasn't since I'd been drinking from it for twenty-five miles. Well, it wasn't so I was left only with powerade for the final thirty miles.  
  
I rejoined the course, passing a number of slower riders until I noticed a red jersey off in the distance. I wasn't gaining much ground. I knew that this had to be Alex. I accelerated to catch him. Just as I had visually confirmed that it was him we came to a corner. He took the corner slowly. I knew it was my chance to make up the final distance so I hit the corner hard. While I didn't crash my chain did pop off. I tried in vain to kick it back on. Then I got off the bike and threw it casually back on. Then it fell off to the other side. Finally I got it back on, but the distance between us had grown again. I spent the next mile riding way too fast to catch him again. This time it was successful, and after eighty-six miles and radically different experiences, we'd ended up in the same place.  
  
Alex had missed the start and had to wait or the race organizer to return. He then got a verbal description of how to navigate the first part of the course, which didn't work out quite so well and he got lost. My collection of mistakes roughly equaled his and we ended up finding each other. Strange! Almost the same thing happened at Almanzo. We rode without seeing people for quite a while. The sun had come out and I was really thirsty, but the powerade combined with the poor food choices were making me feel sick. I kept looking around for water. I wasn't yet desperate, so I settled for powerade and nauseousness. I remember very little about those final miles except that they were all very much the same. We eventually reached pavement where Alex put the hammer down. I drafted him for the final five miles. Before long we were back at the start eating sandwiches and drinking water.  
  
But the day wasn't over. I wanted to leave quickly so that my legs wouldn't completely seize. The ride home *sucked*. I couldn't find a position on the bike that was particularly comfortable. I'm simply not accustomed to riding over one hundred miles. Eventually we made it back to my place. My mind was mostly gone. Final stats: 136.9 miles in 8:45. Mostly gravel. Lots of rough, loose gravel. Bad decisions. A lot of them. But I made it. I finished.

 [1]: http://dirtybenjamin.blogspot.com/