---
title: "2008: part II"
date: "2007-12-30 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Life', 'Running']
tags: resolutions
---

I've decided on my theme for 2008: hardening the fuck up. I dabbled with the concept during the last part of training for the Milwaukee Marathon, but never fully explored its many applications. Like a religious person, I put on the bracelet in my time of need and relied on displacing the magnitude of a task in its mythology. After the marathon I once again became soft, occasionally foregoing weight lifting or running in favor of being tired and lazy. I need to regain focus. I ran somewhat frequently in December, but it was sporadic and suffered during our various snow emergencies. Step one of this reinvention is to get some trail running shoes. I have been relying on my regular, worn out running shoes to carry me over the uneven and slippery surface. It's not necessarily dangerous, but the added stability and traction of a trail running shoe will allow me to better pursue step two: long runs. I have been pleased with myself if I get out and run a few miles, but come spring that's just not going to be sufficient if I want to have a good marathon experience. I started today with a four mile run and intend to gradually increase my mileage, perhaps a mile per week, through the remainder of the winter. It was my first run using the smartwool base layers that I got from my parents for christmas. I wore regular running shorts over my lower baselayer and was very comfortable. I felt nimble and efficient, my breath coming easily and nothing chaffing or making noise. If it was a start, it was a good one and I hope to maintain the momentum. 

I do not intend to limit this theme to exercise. No more whining about anything. I grasp the impossibility of this statement, but it is something that will be successful if only I aspire to it. Whether it's a dirty pan, car drivers, grumpy people, unjustified feelings of inadequacy, videogames, old decisions, failure, damnable technology­--no more whining, internally or externally. This also relies on me only being competitive with myself. I sometimes catch myself using the inappropriate measuring device of other people's accomplishments to gauge my own. Whether it's a marathon time, income, the ability to throw a dart, reading comprehension, v02max, the composition of a bicycle frame or my profile in the waning moonlight, I need to focus on my own strengths and weaknesses. If I can remember these things it's going to be a good year.
