---
title: 'To the running store (or: comedy of errors)'
date: "2013-03-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Running', 'Life']
tags:
---

As a parting gift, one of my coworkers at the Bicycle Chain generously gave me a gift certificate to a local running store. On Saturday, I decided that I would run to the store in Saint Paul, get a new pair of shoes, and run home. It was compelling to think of running with a destination. I had the vague notion that I might try to complete the Strava twenty mile March running challenge. The goal became much more palatable knowing that I would be afforded the interruption of shoe-shopping.

I loaded my hydration pack and set off. The day was gorgeous. Even though temperatures were in the low thirties, the warmth of the sun gave the sensation that I could have been wearing shorts and a t-shirt. I kept the pace conservative, ensuring that I did not dip too far below 9min/mile. It was blissful.

To my surprise, it was busy at the store. I immediately felt out of place. I've been to this particular store many times, and it is usually a good experience. However, this time, something was off. I quickly moved to the *Altra corner* and scanned the shelves for the Instinct 1.5. It wasn't long before someone asked me, "Can I grab something for you?" Uhm. Yeah. I told him what I wanted. When he returned, he handed me the shoes and walked away without a word.

After confirming they fit, I set about the business of trying to spend the remaining amount on the gift certificate. I still felt like people were staring at me. After knocking down a few things with my hydration pack, I hastily settled on new socks, wanting nothing more than to get back outside to the serenity of the day. I grabbed three pair, thinking that it would put me just over the total gift certificate amount.

When I went to check out, I asked if they would dispose of my old shoes. After a bewildered look, he asked if I wanted the box. Uhm. No. I mumbled something about being on foot. I had forgotten that this store offers a blanket discount on new shoe purchases, so my total was short of the gift certificate amount. Not wanting to cause any further complications, I grabbed another pair of socks. This time the total was roughly $1 more than the amount. I hadn't brought any cash, so I had only a credit card and my driver's license. *I'm sorry*, I said, handing him the card. Working at a small business, I know the annoyance of paying credit card fees on small transactions. While he didn't understand, someone else did. One of his coworkers leapt in, stopped him from running the card, and explained--with a hint of irritation and never speaking directly to me--the pitfalls of fees on small purchases.

After finally navigating the checkout process, I nervously tried to fit the four pairs of socks into my hydration pack. I was moving quickly to try to mitigate any further awkwardness. Unfortunately, I didn't notice that my hydration pack was leaking. By the time I finally crammed everything in the bag, I'd left a giant pool of Ultima tainted liquid on the bench where people sit to try on shoes. *Shit*. I stood there, trying to get someone's attention. Finally, I prevailed, feeling it wholly necessary to explain that the mysterious liquid was from a leaking hydration pack. The blank stare betrayed skepticism. I waited until he returned with paper towels, at which point he seemed miffed that I was still standing there. To complete my disgrace, I asked if I could bother him to get rid of my sock packaging. He gestured with annoyance to the bench and said, "Just leave them there."

I left. It's funny how little things can compound and inevitably define an interaction. No one asked me how I was, where I was running, or if I liked the shoes that I'd been using (which I also bought at their store). I felt like an interruption and an irritation. Yeah, I shouldn't have allowed my running pack to leak on the bench, but I feel like I would have been more friendly if I was working there. I would have at least made a point to ask, "How are you doing?". Or comment on the fine weather. Or ask where I was running. I might have even had an entire conversation. I doubt I will return. Not because I am petty or the interaction was that awful, but because I had been defying geography to continue shopping there. Other stores are much closer to my house, and if it's not the people luring me there, then what?

Anyway, I shook it off and returned to my run. Around mile ten I stopped and sat on the steps of a church, watching the day happen and eating a Lara bar. I ended up coming home after 15.4 miles, even though I still felt really good. I didn't want to push the new shoes too far, and I had a few other things I wanted to do in the afternoon. 