---
title: "(au)s(us)picious: part I"
date: "2008-08-25 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Writing', 'Life']
tags:
---

I find myself suspicious, eyeing with auspice, entirely convinced that everything in my world revolves around repetitions of the same five people. Haha! The matter, festering so long in its unspoken misdeed, suddenly come to clarity in such a similar shape as my imagination had conceived it. Initially taken aback by just how correctly intuition had guided me, but then amused at the way in which each acted so utterly predictably, including myself. Ha ha! Then becoming a matter of loyalty, a distaste for the sensation pressing outward­the disconsolation of the wounded. But how the sting is different when the characters of life share the same penchant for frivolous betrayal, a desire to hurt, wound, grip, seize and manipulate. The mediocrity of pettiness, the salutations of strength­ha ha, well good-bye then­and further justifications of expectations that, owing to the peculiarity of the circumstances, could be nothing more than, "why ought I to care?" And how strongly I try to make those untrustworthy souls unimportant to me, so that when back turned I, alone, realize the deceit. The strange thing is that when I imagine deceit I always imagine its revelation being more involved than walking along a boulevard, piecing together intonations of words, disconnected glances, and tendencies for certain phrases. Always I think it should be a scene, a confession, an accusation, emotions turned on end and spit like venom from a snake's mouth. Instead it is a very lonely thing, and even once realized it often remains unvalidated for such a length of time that the resolution becomes insignificant. I've already dealt with it. Alone. Wondering always if you were going to tell me. I shouldn't have a reaction. No, none at all. It's none of my business. Of course, that's not what I mean. I mean this: it's mine, all mine. Yet, there is a certain freedom in that loneliness, that when the excited betrayer looks upon your weary face for signs of devastation, it finds only a slight discomfort, no worse than a fly bite. "You should have come along earlier, when this would have been shocking." Occasionally, at my work, I encounter children whose innocent souls have not yet been taught how to lie or what to expect from other human beings. I feel awkward in their presence, as though I want to connect with that ability to understand the world in a much different way than it stands, but have no facility to do so. Ha haha. Work beckons.
