---
title: 'scrutiny'
date: "2010-04-16 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I have not written. instead I have spent the day bouncing off of things, not quite settling into doing anything in particular. the impact of what I have done in the past month has finally started to make its full imprint on my mind. anxious. lonely. mystified by the starkness of the polarity that envelops me. I left beth, or rather, I am still here while she is somewhere else at my demand. after months of what I then remembered as perpetual distrust and fighting, I gave up. since then I have gradually started to remember things differently. the truth is somewhere. we were different than other people. I had not fully appreciated that until she was removed from my life. it is not the same to understand how someone experiences the world as it is to experience the world in the same way. genuine sympathy. the beauty of our unlikely symmetry brought with it a certain consequence: emotional undulation. at times we were extremely high as individuals and at times we were extremely low. it is a characteristic that I shared with beth. I am a terrible person to be around when I am down. I am insecure, jealous, mean and completely disconnected emotionally. she is much the same, however, much more inclined to recognize her behavior as detrimental and correct it. I indulge it. I make the worst mess that I can make just to prove that I am untouchable, that no amount of pain will affect me. but it does. it just doesn't do it right away. just as the victims of terrifying injuries have a certain period of adrenaline induced obliviousness, I stumble around without the slightest notion of how injured I really am. wounded, bleeding, proclaiming the sanctity of what I am doing. real problems. I try to work it out in my mind whether we had any real problems. I connected with her in the most intimate, intense way. when we met it was our energy rather than our words communicating. we had no other reason to be safe with each other. strangers. only that the energy from our bodies liked being in the same space. the biggest problem in our relationship was mine: I did not adjust to life with a child. however, it was completely different from the way that I would have ever imagined. I didn't dislike her at all. certain behaviors of hers were terrible, but I enjoyed having her around much more than I would have thought possible. my discontent revolved around a feeling of rejection, my rejection. I expected her to love me. I expected her to get excited and treat me like a parent. I expected that she would be content with me when beth wasn't around. none of those things happened. I have read many things on being a step-parent, and I learned that my expectations were unrealistic. the truth of living with a child that is not your own is that you must want nothing, you must be willing to sacrifice endlessly without expecting any kind of reward (you may eventually get one, but you cannot expect/want/desire it). the idea is that you do all of this for your partner rather than the child. I couldn't handle this. while I liked clementine and loved/love/will love beth, it became like the cool kids at school: when you cannot be part of something you begin to resent it. I began to resent her. my schedule revolved around her and she did not appreciate it. I sold many of my things to pay the heating bills so that she could sleep comfortably at night. yet, she still cried when I picked her up. I suppose I acted not unlike your typical extortionist biological parent: I did things under the premise that I was doing them out of love when in reality I was doing them to get something. so we fought. clementine liked her dad a lot. this made the situation much worse. I was jealous of him. in the throes of my insecurity I would often conflate daughter with mother, assuring myself that beth also loved him and not me. I am sure now that I was wrong about that. she loved me perfectly. it has taken me a very long time to write even this small amount. I do not completely understand it, and most of the people I have confided in do not understand at all. they make their own story with clear, well defined edges. there are heroes and villains, and since I am telling the story I must be the hero. I am certain that I am not. the story might not have a hero, or if that is not the case, then I am certainly its villain. someday soon I will write more. words will slowly return to me and eventually pour forth as if in a hushed whisper during confession.