---
title: "fickleness: part I"
date: "2007-11-09 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I stood on the deck this morning watching the rogue flurries. The first few glimpses of snow are beautiful, ­large, luminescent objects floating to the earth, a kaleidoscope of changing shapes that silently transcend to nothing more than vapors. If only people tried to understand rather than appease each other. I stand accused of doing neither. I find it unfortunate that opinions are formed and deformed so readily, or that contradictions of emotion are so troublesome. Frequently I imagine that I assess a man to be nothing at all like myself only to realize that in spite of everything we are very much the same, and then very much the same as everyone else. I am uncertain whether this is truth or mere sentiment, as the two often become blurred in my mind. Two thoughts projected this idea: the structured whimsy of corporations and the precise and interchangeable mindset of intellectual commerce. 

The first notion occurred to me several years ago when I was working at a giant retail corporation. From the start of my employment I was there to work. It is not that I am a particularly diligent person, but rather that I am prone to freneticism and submersing myself in objectives that are not revealed to be ridiculous until they are achieved. This is to say: I am no better or worse than any other man of my age and disposition. In any case, I started as a laborer and gradually increased my worth by expounding the virtues of labor. After a time I grew out of favor with the management. It concerned me on a personal level much more than a professional level­I wanted to know why I was disliked. To be even more precise, I wanted to know that I was not disliked. As such, my work continued with unaltered vigor. I was no more or less useful than I had been previously. Surprisingly, one day I was back in favor with the same people who moments earlier had thought of me only as an unaddressable problem. From this point on it became fashionable to think of me as a loose cannon who could be relied upon when procedure was secondary to results. I liked this role, but it was not long before it occurred to someone that the existence of such an ill defined role could cause problems to the overall structure. It was dangerous, so the popular opinion shifted in two directions: either I should promote or be subject to pointless regulations that exemplified my subordination. To expedite the process my immediate boss was moved to another area of the store and not replaced. There was a leadership void and whisperings in my ear that it could all be mine. Unfortunately, just as I consented fashion once again changed and the rogue band that had assembled in the void were seen as more useful and discerning than any one leader could possibly be. This lasted for a while before popular opinion decided that the band had grown too independent of its environment. By every imaginable measure we became scoundrels, and lazy ones at that. In reality, our work and disposition had changed little. However, once the notion had been deployed it was impossible to disprove by any means achieved with the hands. I went to another store where many of the same things themes played out a second time. I was promoted at the height of my fashion and then quit. It was either the ultimate form of submission to the machinery's fickleness, or the ultimate act of martyrdom. It was likely neither. I have recently seen a friend going through this same process, except he promoted at the height of fashion and tried to remain there. Now he is left to wonder why he is falling out of fashion, what defect of character has led the machine to conclude that it made a mistake in selecting him. "No sir, the machine is only fickle," I tell him. But I am too little accomplished to speak with any authority. 

Later I think about those people of lukewarm temperament who would rather I not speak candidly, but detest that in my restraint I offer so little grounds for judgment. It must be had instead in glances, omissions, diversions from protocol. If only I were to sever my association with other people, I think. I am accused of an intricate game, in which my befuddlement is mistaken for malice. But why stumble through this as if there is something to be gained? It is with tenderness that I remove myself from situations that are meant for the dance floor. I am not a dancer, ma'am. Soon I fall out of fashion with these people. During my marriage Katy's mother vacillated between lovingly adorning me as her son and reviling me as the devil. I could not fathom what caused her change. It seemed in those moments when I least expected her favor she was there with affection and insight (those words are surely too strong), but when I most expected it she declared me the very image of the devil. This inconsistency has been repeated many times over and I am left reeling, in search of the element that I fail to provide to proxy relationships. Do I speak too little, or always of the wrong thing? While I feel I have come to understand certain machines, it is this one of unexpected observation that most troubles me. When people who should have no opinion of me at all suddenly form one, I am left to wonder at my inability to coalesce. These people are quickly and easily discarded, but the thought lingers that something about me invited an ill opinion without investigation from a near stranger.
