---
title: "bicycle tires: part I"
date: "2008-02-15 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Life', 'Cycling']
tags: 
---

I fail to understand people who are perpetually late for regularly scheduled things. One would think that the mere repetition of it would act as a conditioning device, developing at least the tendency to arrive on each side of the mark with equal frequency. But no. I am of the contrary disposition­I arrive places early. It is a fault no less glaring, except that the benefit is typically not my own and people like that. They tend to think of it as selflessness when in actuality it is something more akin to paranoia. This morning, as usual, I was running about twenty-five minutes early. I went down to the garage, loaded up my xtracycle with the crosscheck hitched on the back, only to find that the rear tire of the xtracycle was flat. I fucked around with the pump in hopes that I might be able to inflate the tire, ride to work, and change the tube once I was safely inside the shop. The pump wouldn't work. I cursed. It had taken several minutes to load the xtracycle and I was hesitant to abandon it, but I really didn't have the time to pull the wheel and find a working pump. I moved pedals to the crosscheck and was about to leave when lo and behold I found its rear tire was also flat! Now, it might seem obvious in hindsight that the immediacy of the previous debacle ought to have raised my level of flat tire awareness, but it was not so. The mere unlikelihood overwhelmed caution and it was not until I heard the rubber limp against the garage floor that my folly occurred to me. I suspiciously eyed the Pugsley. Though both front and rear appeared as rotund as ever, I was now certain that a curse had been invoked and my touch would immediately flatten them. I cautiously mounted and left for work, now running only three or four minutes ahead of schedule. Another failure would certainly cause me to join the ranks of the late, and perhaps with enough bad luck, the perpetually late. Fortunately the faithful Pugsley delivered me as promised. Despite the lack of snow it still does everything it can to make me happy. After dinner I brought the xtracycle wheel upstairs and inspected the tube. A small sliver of metal protruded through both tire and tube. So small, indeed, that it made me laugh. Based on surface abrasion, I concluded the crosscheck's flat was from underinflation that resulted in a pinch flat. Last time I rode it I had the pressure very low in an attempt to get more traction in the snow. I wonder if those people who are always late encounter such daily grievances? Maybe it is luck alone that has saved me from experiencing this same thing day after day... 
