---
title: 'spending rollover minutes'
date: "2011-04-25 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
tags: ['vacation', 'Hawaii']
---

I still intend to write more about the pleasant aspects of my vacation, but at the moment I need to vomit frustration about an experience with an airline.  
  
**Part 1: the flight is canceled.** We arrived at the Honolulu airport on Friday afternoon for our flight to Hilo. We were flying an airline called go! Mokulele. I didn't put a lot of thought into our interisland flight as my previous experience had been so *effortless.* Matt and I booked our flight a few hours before it left, it cost almost nothing, and absolutely nothing went wrong (aside from my toothpaste being confiscated). Once we finally found the "special" terminal we were directed to a second line as our flight had been canceled. *Why?* mumblemumblesomethingabouttheplane. We pressed for more details. "You will have to talk to the person at this counter. No one else will tell you anything. .  
  
**Part 2: first contact**. While we were waiting for our flight I called customer care. "Oh, apparently no one told you. You'll need to email or fax to request a refund." I proceeded to explain the ridiculous situation at the airport and reflect on the absurdity of spending several hours only to get an email address. I sent an email from my phone.  
  
**Part 3: the Hilo airport.** After not hearing anything for a week I decided that I would stop at the gate at the Hilo airport. I explained, "I'm having trouble getting my refund...could you please help me?" The woman made a phone call. She proceeded to explain that Lois in accounting has been on vacation and that she would be back on Monday, but that it would be 30 days until I received my refund. "If she's back on Monday why will it take 30 days?" She explained that, "that's what they told [her]." I proceeded to accost her for the lack of accountability that anyone was willing to take over a fairly straightforward situation. I also asked why she thought anyone would fly their airline when they could just go get a flight on Hawaiin and be treated like a human being.  
  
**Part 4: the followup.** Once we were back in Minnesota I called their customer care line again. This time I was on hold for over thirty minutes. No one ever answered. I decided to try another approach. I called travelocity, through whom I had booked the reservation. The man explained that they could not issue a refund, but he could connect me to the airline. *Fine*. After spending another twenty minutes on hold I was on the phone with someone who proceeded to explain that *their airline does not fly to Hawaii*. Uh? I'd been connected to the wrong airline. The fucker had my TRIP ID number. I called go! Mokulele again, this time waiting almost for what seemed like an eternity. Finally someone picked up the phone. "What's your confirmation number?" *I don't have one. I booked through Travelocity.* "You cannot fly without a confirmation number." *Yes I can. You just scan your card or id at the kiosk. Can't you look it up by my last name? *"No it's been purged." ...we went back and forth like this for a long time. Finally she put me on hold. When she returned she asked, "What's your last name?" She then miraculously found me in the system and gave me my confirmation number, but refused to help me with my refund, explaining that they have 30 days to respond to refund requests. I promised that I would continue to waste people's time asking for my refund.  
  
**Part 5: it's not our fault.** I waited the thirty days and then called the airline again. *I have a confirmation number.* "We can't use that on past dated flights. What's your last name?" I could not do anything but laugh at this. I explained the situation and was put on hold for a significant amount of time. Probably thirty minutes, but at this point I was so acclimated to it that I hardly noticed. She returned explaining that two weeks earlier they had contacted Travelocity and told them to issue a refund. I explained that Travelocity had told me that they could not issue a refund. I gathered as much of this useless information as possible and bid her farewell.  
  
**Part 6: it's not our fault either.** I called Travelocity and they began with their spiel about not issuing refunds. I explained that the airline had talked to someone there and that they were to issue a refund. I was put on hold for thirty minutes (this time I watched the clock tick on my phone, so I know that it was exactly thirty minutes...I was about to hang up as that was my line in the sand). He returned explaining that, in fact, they were supposed to issue me a refund, but that he could not do it because he was customer care, and it needed to come from consumer relations. I asked if he could simply facilitate this as I had no desire to be put on hold for another thirty minutes. He told me that I would have to email. I said that I had. He told me that I had emailed "member services" and they could not help me either. I proceeded to become quite irate, asking to know why it was so difficult to get a refund when everyone generally agreed that I should get one. I had already been inconvenienced by a level of incompetence that was staggering and they should be *begging* to give me my money back. I yelled at him for quite a while. He did not budge. I told him that I hoped after this stupid email proposition failed that I get to talk to him again. I then sent that stupid email. That was today. No response yet.  
  
Oh, there were about ten other phone calls that were either so fruitless or forgettable that I didn't write anything about them. Next step will either be to cry or dispute the charges with my bank. In any case. Never EVER fly go! Mokulele and never EVER EVER use Travelocity.