---
title: "surly pugsley: part I"
date: "2007-12-07 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I celebrated my complete removal from the world of responsibility by purchasing a Surly Pugsley. The removal, though purely spiritual, could not have been facilitated without the following contributions: from the weather for producing a most uncanny november in Minnesota, and from the sunset for occurring at such a time and distance in its antithetical western sky as to leave me in doubt of the end of one day and the beginning of the next--in effect producing an incongruity whose practicality was blown into the white heaving drifts of our early winter and, in fine, leaving no alternative except that of indulging my childlike behavior. Furthermore, the sensation that purchasing a Pugsley was no less a gift to mankind than it was to myself heightened what had already presented itself as an act of compassion and benevolence. 

Once my disposition had settled, I moved on to step two: build the fucking wheels. Over the snow-laden weekend QBP sold out of their prebuilt Pugsley wheels. A geeky preface: the Pugsley is allowed its magnificent girth by a combination of a crooked frame and a skewed wheel dish. In this case two bends make a straight as everything lines up properly and allows what some might have deemed impossible (those same folk are now forced into thinking the impossible merely impractical). Surly is kind enough to send a spacer with the frame that, given a non-existent ultra wide truing stand, expedites the process. Not having such a thing and no longer believing in unicorns I opted merely to tension them evenly and hope that the resulting wheel was incontestably true. 

Day one: having made the parts into a passable bicycle I took it on its first ride. At 30psi I was no slower, and likely faster, than on my xtracycle. We careened down a rutted hill and I marveled at the bikes ability to ride happily without user interaction. I suddenly felt empowered in much the same way that I imagine a hummer driver feels empowered during rush hour traffic. I certainly didn't run over everything in my path, but I liked knowing that I could. A few blocks into the journey my confidence overcame my ability and I took my first plunge into the snow. I tried to jump out of a rut that was running in the wrong direction. It didn't work. Only a few short feet later I hit some ground up automobile slush and landed in the road for a second time. At this point I began to suspect that my choice of tire pressure was incorrect. The rest of the ride was fine as I rode more conservatively. I followed a tractor rut on the way home and giggled like a four year old. 

Day two: mounted front and rear racks. The eyelet placement on the Pugsley is pure genius, allowing for easy use of racks while not interfering with the disc brakes. The solution: eyelets just above the disc caliper. Simple, yet a feature not seen on any of Surly's other frames (or anyone else's). Not wanting to let my new racks go without a trial run, I rode home with Matt, carrying his case of beer for him. My tires were at 14psi in front and 18psi in the rear. The handling was much better, but I didn't test its limits as I didn't want to break twelve bottles of beer. On the way home I cut through a footpath at Como Park that appeared to have been trampled by a stampeding horde of human children. I made vroom noises and imagined running them over with my giant tires. to be continued...