---
title: "terminal failure: part I"
date: "2008-07-06 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

 I am not an interesting man. This occurred to me rather suddenly as my eyelids were inching downward and I chanted inside of my skull, "DO NOT FALL ASLEEP, DO NOT FALL ASLEEP..." I have no grand ideas and only occasionally do I become so enthralled and consumed with an idea that I gush on endlessly about it, and even at these times, I remain hideously self aware. In fact, the level of self awareness that I maintain is such that my exclamations become immediately suspicious. It becomes a parody and although I am clever and perhaps even evil, I am not sincere. This inability for sincerity becomes debilitating and my communication so strained that I am nothing more than an insidious evil which is either openly reviled or indulged in the name of courtesy or caution. Ha ha. Is this blog sincere? Are instances which seem to be a still image of chaos actually experiments conducted for my amusement? Perhaps I think, "What if I felt this way today or experienced this self doubt/reflection /absorption?" I read with a certain level of interest, dissecting broad spans of time and coming up with only a handful of recurring themes. Among them are the following: a near obsession with physical endurance, a crippling fear of certain manifestations of physical pain (especially persistent maladies which reflect deterioration of the mind or body), intermittent misdirected spirituality, regrets for relationships which I have decimated and/or devoured, and sexual frenzy. How utterly unoriginal and boring! Not a single theme is something that could not be observed with equal scrutiny by simply turning on the television. It is no wonder that I have nothing to talk about with anyone. My mind is working at a very low level, and although I often deceive myself into thinking that my brilliant mind has simply grown lazy, I look back and find no evidence of brilliance whatsoever! There seemed at times to be potential. I piqued the interest of brilliant people. At times I even (inadvertently, I swear!) made them helpless with my tautological drivel. Indeed, I resolved many essential human conflicts on which I had absolutely no opinion at all. It seemed strange at first to have absolutely no opinion, but then I realized that I had mistaken my inability to form an opinion with a lack of an opinion. It was not that I was free from opinion (or free of prejudice as I frame it in its better light), rather I was waiting for my opinion to be represented to me by the circumstances. My dull mind, though incapable of producing its own opinion, was swift to identify the strongest opinion on a topic and to own it with zeal and tactlessness. Now I stave off what seems a tidal wave of unpleasant dreams, re-imagining moments of my life as if I had been passionate rather than bored. There will be people who tell me that I am being too hard on myself. That wit and repetition of the television is a satisfactory substitute for ingenuity and an ability to live within moments. Such interactions are a farce, a necessity of certain relationships wherein being realistic is too often confused with feeling bad. Oh no, I do not feel bad! I certainly should. I should consider my dullness and inability to communicate extensively and to a broad audience as an absolute failure in my role as a human being. However, I do not. For whatever reason I smile and applaud idiotically at the earnestness of my declaration (..."what if I felt this way today or experience this..."). What if it is a lie? What if this too is merely for my amusement, to experience a sensation that I can conceive but not truly engage? Language is absolutely bizarre. One of my coworkers has started to use the phrase "terminal failure" to describe what will happen if a customer does not fix his or her bike. Since switching to the phrase he has been selling more parts than ever before, and especially more than me. I describe what will happen. "This will break," I say pointing to the thing that will break, "and because it breaks this will happen..." I go on to describe a series of possible outcomes. No one buys anything from me. People are generally unimpressed with the actuality of terminal failure. They thrive on ambiguity, indulging their very worst fears. So perhaps I attempt this examination as a sort of curative exercise, identifying the actuality of my failings and in doing so, I neutralize them. Or maybe I am lying. Or maybe I am gushing, completely enamored and lost to a false notion of self.