---
title: "idle: part I"
date: "2007-12-28 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

In a few short days I have become mentally idle. It started three days ago when I slept through the night for the first time since spring or early summer. I woke up disorientated. It was still dark in my bedroom but it felt somehow nearer morning and my mind nearer wakefulness. I looked at the clock and it was 7am. I thought it peculiar at the time, but didn't alter my behavior the following night. Again I slept until 7am. Since I did not work that day I took a nap in the afternoon, certain that it would break the monotony of my night. I fell asleep a bit later, but again woke up at 7am. When I left for work I noticed carrots on the sidewalk. They were the kind that are sold in a bag and all have a uniform size and shape. I wondered if they belonged to a melted snowman with many generic appendages­ universal shapes tacked on to an indistinct massless form, much like I imagine myself when my eyes are closed. On the way to work I slowly passed a runner. We did not greet each other. My first conversation of the day did not go well. I stammered and was obviously intimidated. It occurred to me slowly that my behavior did not match my character­--this was simply not a way that I would behave. I am known to stammer in moments of excitement or unrest, but in those times when I am fighting the dreadful boredom of habit my speech comes easily and I am unaffected by unusual patterns. Not much later I realized that I was listening to a song on the radio that was played three years ago. I did not understand. 

The girl was with a man who was fat and insisted that our ceiling ought to be repainted. This exchange was brief, but they lingered for some time after, awkwardly volleying words like a shuttlecock at the hands of over-excited children. Her nerves were apparent. She did not enjoy the conversation but needed the man in a professional capacity. He was safe in the conversation in that the circumstances did not mark it as odd. He left and she introduced herself for a second time, asking my name and then announcing it before I had a chance to fully eject the words. My thoughts suddenly became necessary and I grappled with a series of redundancies that seemed as old and stale as the song that had just played, except years ago. I tried to focus. My tooth hurt. My eyes felt blurry and dry. If only I could call her by a nickname or offer her a beer or ask her if she was a maniac. Things I understood. Finally I decided to obscure my lack of forethought with what might be called "a drive"­the thrust of an idea, concept, or excited back patting. In the end I did not know if I liked her or her ideas, or even if I'd participated in a conversation. Later my mind went blank. 

Finally, I answered the phone but could not immediately recall the series of words that I needed to say. Once when a coworker was talking to a man named Harry he announced to Harry that his own name was Harry, even though it was not Harry. Their identities were temporarily nullified and I was unsure whether either was a consciousness at all. It struck me that it could have been a misspoken line between actors in a great drama. I have been to many plays and have only witnessed a few lines that were obviously botched. In fact, the infrequency has the tendency to draw my mind into a false acceptance of things that do not and should not make any sense whatsoever. I wondered if perhaps the principals that have wedded me to the reification of sense have also deceived me into making material bonds to obviously false notions. I cannot think about word order. 

When I left the garage I circled around three times to make sure that I had locked the door. In the short span of time between my hand sending a signal to my brain that it or any other hand would be unable to open the door, I had simply forgotten. I lost track of continuity, the idea that the door was locked, time had passed without me opening the door, so presumably it would still be locked. For some reason my mind struggles with the linear nature of this logic. I have known the door to be open and the door to be closed, and therefore each turn of the knob has a fifty percent chance of resulting in either the door being locked or the door being unlocked. I have mentioned already my struggle with locked doors. 

So I consider leverage as an extension of the mind. The mind herein having a capability over the concepts in which it roots its stability. The consequence of this is a paralysis countered only be a resigned sense of fatalism. For instance, in the case of the locked door the mind provokes the notion of its being beyond my control. It becomes simply unknowable. I become agnostic in my regard for everything and my mind produces a dull and irrelevant hum. A metallic glint. Or wisdom. 

My paragraphs grow shorter as I encompass the limits of my mind. I become sleepy and strangely separated from my surroundings, as if I've been enveloped in an inexplicable indoor fog. No one will believe me, of course, but I do not find this the least bit interesting. I do not relish the ability that I have to sever my concepts of internal and external components. My tooth still hurts. It is a tooth that has not caused me any problems since 1995. I feel suddenly very old and distinct from this entity that I project. I cannot focus.