---
title: 'part I'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

the beginning. we met in a park. it was cold. the sky an endlessly shifting backdrop of worn out blacks. the wind cut at my skin and my posture held a certain falsity to it. too erect. too deliberate. shoulders made intentionally two wide. take it easy, arms at the sides. nothing. an empty park, so I sat in the swing waiting for the nightbreeze to push me to the stars. I noticed her then, hidden between slide and monkey bars. I paused. I was not in love yet, but soon I would be. the impact of that did not escape me as I rewound time at my death to work in my favor. appreciate this. maybe that's how it happened. maybe I didn't know what was going to happen. endlessly paused against a world that tilted at the same arch as the swing. she slipped in and out of my vision as I glided through the dimly illuminated night sky, not far from the big lake. bethany. no voice. no words. it's okay. don't worry about it. this is our order, our way of connecting. sinking into each other. the want of oneness. hi. I will love you soon. speechless. sensation heightened by the contrast between the chilly nightbreeze and the warmth of new skin that moves so perfectly against its counterskin. evaporating and pouring substance into substance. I don't always have words for it. I stumble now, looking for a way to describe it with my inelegant fingers. grasping first at my brain and then deeper. ripping my insides out and arranging them as language. I did not want to leave. in the sand. letting it slip between my toes. in my shoes. evidence the next morning when I went to collect my workthings that it had happened. it was not merely dreaming. a week earlier, outback steakhouse: "what are you doing ____ night?" I looked across the table and spoke slowly, "I am going to a park where everything will change. I don't know exactly what is going to happen." earlier. the moon drifted across the sky and I was apprehensive. I kicked the sand, first one foot and then the other, tipping awkwardly from side to side as I remembered how to swing. eventually it stopped moving. I sat. body not yet ready to shift. become standing. first sight. dim shapes. exploratory. "I'm not even that cold." I shivered. cold, but also frightened. overwhelmed. the monotony of life devoured in a single moment. I left, pedaled. new strange streets. deliberately through different parts of the city. coming home a collection of new sensations. expressions. I almost didn't recognize myself in the mirror.

to be continued.
