---
title: 'blushing'
date: "2006-04-17 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

coffeehouse phantasia. i fell asleep after work yesterday and slept until 11pm. it was more than a nap, less than a night's sleep, and enough to thoroughly disrupt the pattern of sleep that i've been hoping so desperately to reclaim. maybe that's not true. i somewhat delight in the merriment of sleeplessness, reclaiming hours rather than the self governance of dreaming. it will no doubt be daylight or another day altogether when i send this, because even though i reconcile my nighttime misbehavior, i find that my eyelids are one step ahead of me, reclaiming their aching influence. it is this power struggle, this endless back and forth movement for position, so much like the brazen young punk rockers reaching out to touch their make believe sounds, that injects movement into what has grown into a quiet situation. but this quiet situation, this thing that we fear so much, the one that ejects false inductions like synthetically arrived text, it does not constitute an end or a reason for panic. it is unnecessary for this tug of misplaced imaginary fear, this dry heave beat my chest insolence, to reconfigure our faces when we difficultize the sheer simplicity and elegance of three word commentaries addressing beauty which we have observed clandestinely, spoken of reciprocally, and contextualized hypothetically. this failure needn't stir defeat. it is transitional unfamiliarity that precludes the absolute projection of that self which we have affectionately and delicately handled in our unthought moments. this, however, is a temporary affliction made manifest by the daydrum missives of interactions that have not extended as substance. perhaps in this zeal to overuse our faculties we have attempted to undersay the things that we like so much to think about not saying, hoping that in the barrage of thrown voice we might dispell our blushing. to that i say, "..."