---
title: 'after an extended absence i come back dripping with honesty...'
date: "2006-05-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

the rain. the days when the rain will not end make me miss my wife. it is not common for me to speak plainly, to proclaim who it is that i miss and what it is is that i feel. but no one goes here now and it is if i am speaking into a mirror. i can follow a series of clues that will lead me through my brain and into the abyss of my soul. no no. i will avoid that diluted language. on rainy days, and we have had many of them, i pull back the blinds just a touch, just enough to see the vague reflection of my face produced by the two lightbulbs in my apartment that remain in working order. it's a somber face. i feel pity for those who have found affection for it without seeing how used up it has become. my hair is proportioned and configured to reduce some of my face's abrasiveness; yet, i find that i cannot look at that reflection, indistinct as it may be. this is not because i find my face hideous in its construction--in fact, i quite like it. it may not be the most beautiful face ever, it may wear its smile rather crookedly and hide what are becoming malformed teeth, but i like it all the same. the color of the eyeballs suits me, and the mixture of timidity and stoicism pleases me. but there is something else in this face that even an indistinct reflection in the window on a rainy day does not fail to reveal. this face is sad, and worse still, it seems rather pointless, almost excessive. i reason that existence, whether inspired by god or chaos, is privy only in the case of an object's contribution to its consistency. namely, if an object no longer wills to exist it will simply cease to be. this could be wrong, of course, but when i look at this face i am convinced of two things: i am not wrong and this face is an anomaly. on rainy days when i am contemplating this face i think of her face. by a rather unlikely and cruel twist of fate i have been left with only one picture of her that has been soaked with rain. my computer broke, taking with it all of the digital images and she kept the rest of our actual photos. i wonder if i could ask for them back? could i say, "i need them for daydreaming on days when i am thinking about my indistinct face dripping with rain?" i remember, more vividly than this indistinct face in the window, an image of her just waking up as the sun was peeking through our window blinds. this was before the house. we were still in the horrible apartment that when it wasn't being horrible was quite pleasant and would have made for wonderful conversation over tea when we were in our eighties. but now i won't make it into my eighties so the apartment has become irrelevant. the face, though, has not. i remember it well and while i am remembering i notice that even though the rain has stopped the vague image in the window continues to drip. i wonder if these are tears coming from this used up face that no longer wills its existence but has been anomalously left to exist in indistinct patterns on my living room window. she stopped writing some time ago and stopped reading my journal. i do not like to think that after everything we will be left with nothing more than to fade away. perhaps things would have been better if i hadn't had to go on living for so long. fading away is the worst. i saw her once, not too long ago, as i was trying to avoid her, after which i wrote her the sweetest love letter that i never sent. it's still in my gmail drafts folder and i might just leave it there forever. i didn't want to burden her with reading it. it is silly that i should still be so anchored in the past, that i shouldn't have just gone on formidably and amiably. this is how the mind works, filling in the blank space with its own imagination and no matter how you think to change it, it will not change. sometimes an image comes into my mind that has nothing to do with anything that is going on in my conscious world. it may be a silly image--a person with a tiny head, an apple, waves, a spring, a naked body--but no matter what i do to impress on it another image i can do nothing more than fill the surrounding space. the original misplaced image will remain. this is how i move. this is how i think. i have decided that i will not have any future romantic relationships. i will go so far as to avoid situations that might invite such a thing. being naturally reserved and a bit insecure i think i will have little trouble accomplishing this. in fact, i think it would have been a much greater task to do anything else. i want the rain to stop. i want the shadows to creep elsewhere, take residence over some other misplaced image.