---
title: "tweed"
date: "2008-12-30 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

The interesting thing about the gym is that no one talks to anyone else, but everyone looks at each other. I'm not sure if it's that the endless mirrors provide some sort of visual effect that yields an unwarranted sense of stealthiness, but moments that would normally result in an abrupt look-away somehow stretch on endlessly and uncomfortably. Endless, because they do not end and uncomfortable because they are never accompanied with human expression­--never a smile, a wtF!?!, a frown, or anything that tells me that I'm looking at something that is living and thinking. Is it because I am also incapable of expression? Or perhaps it is that I wear earphones and am therefore sensory deprived. Perhaps my visual faculties are likewise impaired. But it would be untrue to assume that I am a nonthinking being like I imagine the man who does only quarter repetitions. He moves laconically from machine to machine, his motions almost indiscernible, until the moment when he pounces on a machine, rapidly firing out quarter-repetitions until reaching some number greater than ten and less than twenty. But he thinks as well. I can see it sometimes in the way that he holds his shoulders as though he is thinking about holding his shoulders (we both feel ill and sad). 
 
I had a dream last night that left me feeling unsettled. It was about a woman I have not seen in perhaps seven years. For the longest time I thought that I would never hear from her again, but then one day I did. It affected me to see how she had changed, how she had proceeded with the discourse of adulthood. Like the landscapes that Bob Ross can produce within the frame of a thirty minute television show, she grew into what I'd always imagined. Strange. It is not an insult or an indication of a lacking imagination. No, it was inescapable and a pity only for me. 

My sentiments then are accountable. Scientific. I can log them into a spreadsheet and calculate their sum as easily as I could with numbers. It is predictable which should make it easy to manipulate. Change a variable, change the sum. However, there are points in my life when I begin to feel as though the sum is too large for a single variable, or even a small sequence of variables to noticeably affect the sum. It is like a sum of money for which I have no ability to conceive. For instance, tell me that a company has lost a billion dollars and it will mean nothing to me if the company continues to do what it is designed to do. If an automobile company continues to sell cars or an airline continues to shoot jets into the sky, then it will mean nothing to me that you've told me the company has lost a billion dollars. This might suggest that I instead lack an ability to imagine a billion dollars not meaning anything, but now tell me that a company has gone out of business or a man has gone to jail because of a billion dollars and my understanding will fail just the same. Now tell me that someone is not able to pay their rent because they have $400 and their rent is $500. I understand both the concept and the variables that will result in success and failure. I know how to manipulate the first variable so that it will happily coalesce with the second. 

Also, yesterday I received a hug from a customer wearing tweed. Odd.