---
title: 'nine miles.'
date: "2011-02-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Running 
---

After sleeping heavily for ten hours last night I did nothing all morning. I checked the temperature periodically, promising myself that as soon as the temperature was above zero I would go out for my run. Michelle and I are leaving tomorrow for a weekend of skiing up north. This left me indecisive about the distance that I would attempt. I decided to do slightly less than the 14.3 miles I did on Saturday, but figured I would decide once I was outside. It was six degrees when I left the house. I dressed light, hoping to keep my sweating to a minimum. I struggle to stay warm and dry running in the winter when the temperatures are below 10F. I felt cold immediately. I was wearing: smartwool microweight top, pearl izumi thermal jersey, craft wind stop long underwear, pearl izumi softshell pants, craft gloves, and a smartwool headband. I figured that I would get warm. It was nearing darkness. As I ran along the edge of the cemetary the sun spread its beautiful orange, pink light across the snow. It was serene. The stretched and distorted shadows of the cemetary fence gave the illusion of running in a completely motionless world, one of light and *not light*. I reached Minnehaha. I was cold. My hands, but more distressingly, my core. I stopped at the bottom of the stairs to do pushups. I began running in the direction of Hiawatha. After a mile or so, I decided that it was getting dark and I was not going to get warm. I turned around, running towards the familiarity and comfort of the lakes. Once I reached Lake Harriet I felt better. I was running fast to try to keep warm. It was working, but I was now sweating. Nonetheless, I went around the long way, balling my hands in my gloves and reminding myself to periodically flail my arms about wildly, forcing blood into my fingertips. After a partial lap around Calhoun I went home and sunk into the warmth of my apartment, thankful that it was over. I only managed nine miles, but it seemed epic. While I have mastered cycling gear for various temperatures, I have a lot to learn about long distance running in the winter.