---
title: 'broken coffee dreams'
date: "2005-07-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

it’s morning. yesterday i dropped my coffee decanter and it shattered. today i walked across the street to the superusa and purchased a twenty ounce coffee of quite possibly the worst flavour imaginable. all of this, only after failing to make my own coffee maker out of a glass that i had drilled a small hole in the bottom of and another glass to catch the dripping “coffee”. even after three dreadful passes it was still nothing more than dirty water that i gulped down ferociously, like some kind of junkie. i think i need to get a French press. everyone raves about them like i plainly need one and wriggle their nose when i say that i don’t have one and ask how they work. no one will ever tell me. my mind is dull and it’s the ordinary things and the waiting that i talk about most. i don’t know how to talk about chekhov and german romanticism. i’ll just give an awkward little smile and tell you what color your cat should be or that just now i happen to be inside of a very large cocoon. somehow… more real. i’ve watched from far away as she pivots through the years, and not every story begins with, “do you remember that time?” it’s easier to watch when you’re not lost wondering what her hair might smell like or if purple shorts make you look fat. i write because i wake up dreaming about comas and buried treasures, leeches and cantering corpses. i choose those words because what others are there? certainly none that i know. i read books and forget what they are about. i certainly couldn’t talk about authorial intent and its great paradox. i have static in my ears and dirt under my fingernails. i dream in drips. i touch in trembling. and i roll my eyes back in my head and fall away, hoping against odds that some unseen arms will catch me. it doesn’t sound like my own voice anymore. it knelt next to mine and said, “wake up, here you have one to tell your silly things to.”