---
title: 'two parts, imparted'
date: "2010-07-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: ['Life', 'Writing']
---

this has been a strange week. ten days. two weeks. the time slips away from me. things are improving and I am reconnecting with life. even as the cumulative impact of cataclysm has manifested in the form of fatigue and illness, I have found myself growing stronger in ways that I would not have expected.  
  
**part I: human contact**  
  
the idea began with a conversation about the authenticity of language versus the authenticity of touch. the paradox of the situation was that I was arguing with language that *language* was irreparably false and flawed, and that no matter what I tried to describe or express it unceasingly professed an incompatibility with the reality of the sensation. even though this should have dismissed my claim as fundamentally impossible, I didn't stop thinking about it or trying to define exactly what it was that I meant. *language* has become a parody. I think, *I love you*, and it is beautiful. moreover, I experience the sensation of *love* and it is powerful, potent, untouchable and transcendental. this much is easy to understand. however, when I attempt to describe or profess *love *it is without depth, dimension or intensity. *I love you*. but the language is wedded to a million repetitions of that series of words and the fact that it has been expressed with the same voice that I use to deposit my paycheck or order a cup of coffee. a pattern emerges: I feel it (completely, absolutely, intensely, passionately), *it *transitions from the realm of raw experience to the realm of *language*, falsity emerges in the expression, and I confuse the falsity of the expression with a conceptual falsity until I undermine reality with an actual falsity bred exclusively in the realm of *language.* the result is a complete failure of communication. the very tool that has been honed solely to *communicate *proves itself incapable of representing the thing that I have attempted to communicate. horrifyingly, it does not end here. the process of miscommunication leads to an unraveling and tainting of the original thing. my contention: touch is a pure form of communication that has remained uncorrupted because a.) it is not merely representative, and b.) it has not been adopted as normative behavior. the truth of the argument is best observed in its lone exception: the handshake. a handshake is parody. it is merely a representative and false act and it has been adopted as normative behavior. it communicates almost nothing other than the ability that one has to confidently grasp another person's hand. however, almost all other kinds of touch remain uncorrupted. I can convey *love* with touch. affection. compassion. adoration. there is little ability for falseness or bravado (except for perhaps a direct punch to the face). problems that could not be fixed with any amount of conversation could have quickly been melted by the slightest, most honest and expressive touch. this failed system of words and symbols that human beings have concocted in an attempt to convey something has actually meant nothing but the tragic demise of sincerity. even now as I choose my words carefully, attempting with all of my ability and insight to convey something truthful, I feel its earnestness being whisked away by a swell of false language. further contention: touch is its own biological necessity. I used to think that the value of touch was merely *reflective* in that it represented an exterior object. however, as I have staggered into humility I have found that the association of an idea is not always necessary. example: the other night I was surrounded by strangers. one of them touched my leg. it was not wedded to an idea. in a way it connected the story and the two of us as strangers thrust into closeness, but essentially it was free from any idea. it was possible. it was *necessary*. human contact is a unique type of nourishment. I wish that I would have understood this sooner.  
  
**part II: doors**  
  
this is borrowed from an email that I sent to a friend (I did not realize that I was writing something of such importance until I had completed...I would attempt to restate it for my blog in the interest of not being generic, but I do not think I could state it more clearly):  
  
"lately I have been observing that all of the doors where I live are wrong. I moved at the beginning of june. I live in an old building in the uptown area with high ceilings and impressive hallways (the nature of the impression changes as you move from the basement to the second floor where I live...in the basement it is almost harrowing whereas by the second floor it is *disconnecting* by way of too much being imparted on the senses). I mostly like it. the neighborhood is wonderful for running/walking/living/observing. the floors are lovely with the perfect type and intensity of imperfection. however, the doors are all backwards. they are not backwards because I think that doors should be hinged on a particular side, but because they are counter-intuitive and almost nonsensical. some open into each other. the one leading to the basement opens towards the stairwell and completely blocks your path if it is fully opened. I made note of this when bringing one of my bicycles to the basement storage area. I was sprawled on the stairs trying to hold the door open with my foot while I lifted my bike over the edge of the stairwell and pushed it into the harrowing hallway. even in the laundry room the front loading washing machine door opens into the door for the dryer. if they were reversed one could easily transfer clothing from one machine to the next. as it is the doors must be precariously balanced perpendicular to the machine. this almost never works. tomorrow I might spend the day surprising everyone in the building by reversing all of the doors."