---
title: 'to the mall!'
date: "2009-10-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I suspected after having to attempt three re-installations of the operating system on the Imac that something was more broken than I was willing to admit. It was. Applications almost immediately began to crash and the hard drive capacity started shrinking. Combined with the original problem of missing files and directories, I was confident that it was a failing hard drive. Shit. There were no available appointments at the Rosedale store, so we ended up making one at the Mall of America. This meant driving there in a recently borrowed automobile. I've driven cars approximately twice in the past four years. It is terrifying to me. I watch these people weave, dart, and accelerate/decelerate like madmen. Once behind the wheel my body's response was similar to in any perilous situation: heightened awareness, anxiety, and one-dimensional thoughtmaking. Cars were lurching like mind-fucked animals, molded plastic bodies heaving within inches of each other in some kind of fucked up sex ritual. I gripped the wheel tightly and tried not to be unbearable. At times when I grew particularly frightened I thought about the number of idiots that drive cars long distances everyday. People crash and die, of course, but some manage to escape unscathed. It is dumb luck, but statistically speaking it was comforting to me. We made it to the mall, parked crookedly and went inside. I am chronically early for things, so we had over an hour to waste before the appointment. We walked around the mall. I lugged the heavy Imac in a canvas grocery shopping bag, trying to swiftly maneuver out of the path of people who were walking like one might in a dark, empty space. Lazily, carelessly lumbering, bumping into each other as dreamily as the soulless hunks of steel and plastic were moments earlier. I grew anxious and my speech slurred. After a failed trip to the Vans store we gave up shopping and just sat against the wall talking about how uncomfortable we were in such an awful space. It was nice. I was comfortable with that arrangement. Our turn came up at the broken-apples counter and I began explaining the problem to a man with wonderful nerd glasses. I was extremely lucky as he was easily the least objectionable person sitting on the genius side of the counter. The problem could not be resolved so we left it at the store. It's irritating to pay twice as much for an Apple computer as a comparable PC only to have it break within three months, but so far the service has been responsive and easy to initiate.

The rest of the day was pleasant. I went for a recreational bike ride in the morning, then went grocery shopping, and took a nap. It was just the right level of intensity. I did not have either too many or too few things happening. The grocery store was amazing. Rather than going to the nearest store in Uptown, we opted to go west into the suburbs. It resulted in a couple extra miles in each direction, but it was well worth it. The aisles were wide and the atmosphere much less stressful. The cupboards are now overflowing with interesting things to eat. In the evening I grilled. Soon I will go to bed and I will feel good about the day.

Last night I went to a party. Monopoly ended early with a drunken-total-freakout. Not mine, but noteworthy.