---
title: "impressions in the cold: part I"
date: "2008-01-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

When I left for my run this morning it was -10F with a -23 windchill. I was nervous in spite of the fact that it was only ten degrees colder than my previous run, during which the only discomfort I experienced, slight as it was, was a tingling sensation in my nose. I decided to split the six and a half miles into two segments, stopping so that I could warm up and trade wet, sweaty clothes for dry ones. On the first segment I wore two smartwool baselayers on top and bottom, running pants, balaclava, fleece hat, coolmax running shirt, giant mittens and a bit of chamois butter on my nose and cheeks. This setup felt quite good as I walked outside, so I knew that I would eventually overheat. I tried to pace myself so that it would be just as I neared home. The first half of the first half of the run was very easy. I sweat only a bit and the wind was at my back. The second half I struggled a bit more as I encountered some uphill sections and my breathing became labored. I find it difficult to breathe at temperatures below ten degrees fahrenheit. It has been improving with the increased frequency of my running, but I still struggle sometimes. I made it home easily, reveled for a moment in the bright morning sun and mentally prepared for the second half. 
 
For the second part I didn't wear nearly as much clothing. I traded my giant mitts for small, fleece mitts; my two baselayers for one; my balaclava for a beanie, my hiking socks for midweight running socks; and my trail shoes for regular running shoes. I sweat much less with this arrangement, but the wind sometimes made itself apparent on my face and hands. I found that I could keep my nose warm by occasionally putting my cupped hands over my face, thereby directing my warm breath over its surface. I don't like to run with anything over my mouth and nose. I find that not only does it make it difficult to breathe, but it also causes ice to rapidly accumulate around my mouth. I returned home, took a warm shower, and felt good in my miniature triumph. 

\*\*\* 

fuck dream kill. fuck. drill. seam. feeling primitive. indecisive but mean and ready, absolutely ready. one, then another, then another, then another, then another, then another. it keeps going and given (my) propriety it becomes maddening, and I, prostrate. grinding broken teeth. wincing at was once (). she, a phantom, meaning nothing but looking nonetheless whimsical, disinterested and enticing. the consideration of which becomes its own objection. fuck. the best indication of their anger being that felt between their thighs--distanced from the hatred and censure that brought the one to the other. the distaste of which is felt through rather than in it. being unamused at the devil and uninvested in the flesh. the meanness explicated through a series of motions whose desirability is in their violence, their mimicry of that instance when she and he were interminably blended. forward. shuffling atop broken bones, straining flesh toward that orgasmic moment of it finally being concluded, the mystique betrayed for yet another. suffering and ecstasy wound into a determined deterioration of a form arrived at through progressive means. this, my love, the end--the supernova of physical being into something soft and shapeless, but smaller and weaker.

\*\*\*

Three nights ago I decided that rather than my normal route home I would ride along the river with my coworker, Dave. He recently purchased an xtracycle and the appeal of a utility bike caravan overcame any reservations about the weather. Aside from a bit of wind, the conditions were not particularly striking. More striking was the frequency with which we encountered other serious cyclists, most having proper to impressive lighting and panniers. By the time we turned on to Raymond from Como I estimate that we encountered no fewer than five cyclists, an average of over one per mile. Some days I swear that I could ride around Roseville from dawn to dusk without encountering another cyclist. On the way home my feet started to get really cold in the area of my cleat. It's an ongoing problem that I suffer on rides over one hour in temperatures below fifteen degrees. I stopped at Menards in an effort to get warm. I wandered around, observing the subtle differences between Menards during the day and Menards in the evening. Once I could feel my toes again I left, encountering this oddity on my way out of the parking lot: a man in a wheelchair with a dim, blinking red light blocking the exit. As I approached him he complimented my bicycle while accosting me for not wearing a facemask. The two notions were so intricately woven that I could not have extracted one or the other if I'd wanted to. Consequently, I was unsure whether I should feel good, bad or simply confused about the interaction. I started to feel warmer as I approached my apartment, contemplating once again the perception of distance, especially that sixteen miles could be so epic at one moment and so insignificant in another. 

\*\*\* 

The promised weekend freeze has arrived, with temperature hovering near 0F and winds over twenty miles per hour. Tomorrow is supposed to be even worse. The winter has thus far been very difficult to anticipate, with conditions and requisite equipment in a constant state of flux. Very few times have I thought to myself, "Why Tim, you're dressed perfectly!" I always seem to be wearing too much or too little. When it's windy I am covered in enough layers to drench myself in sweat, while having nothing at all to block the wind. It's been difficult to gauge. Fortunately this weekend will take all of the guesswork out of it: dress to immobility and then remove one layer. 

Yesterday I tried out a new pair of running shoes­--the Nike Free. The premise is that the foot is naturally a very capable device and should not be inhibited by the structure and design of the running shoe. It is intended to mimic the motion and mobility of barefoot running. I purchased them as an additional training tool to have at my disposal­s--omething to be used a few times a month to work on foot strength and stride. My first experience was much more pleasant than I had anticipated it might be. My stride felt very natural and I felt as though I was properly assessing my footfall and its corresponding impact. My feet are somewhat unique in that one of them was somewhat broken and maintains an odd shape. The free seemed to mesh well with my strange foot. On longer runs I could see blisters becoming a potential problem, but as a tool to be utilized on runs under ten miles I think they will be very beneficial. 

Later in the day Ryan and I made a trip to Menards to acquire the necessary components to make a lat pulldown machine. It's an exercise for which I've felt nothing but indifference, but boredom and bitter cold sometimes compel the mind to indulge in strange experiments. The original plan did not quite work, but with the materials that we'd purchased a much simpler solution soon became apparent. 

I'm now officially registered for Grandma's Marathon. We failed to organize the 12:01am party that had been suggested, but all three of us managed to register individually, saving our celebration for the following evening. I feel good about this year. I have a lot going for me that I didn't last year­--I have a marathon under my belt, I have a better sense of equipment, I know how to avoid certain injuries and I've already laid out a six month plan.