---
title: 'handwritten letter'
date: "2010-08-06 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
---

dear worldly anonymity, I sleep late some days. for instance, this morning I slept until 9:43am. it was a struggle. I woke up several times between 6am and the time that I eventually got out of bed, while also suffering from dreams that were much more intense than my waking life. I went to bed shortly after 1am. on paper I did not do anything extraordinary. I slept just over eight hours--soundly for most of it-- and awoke to a predictable pattern of preparing a breakfast that included a bagel covered in almond butter and a cup of coffee. for the second consecutive day I welcomed the cool breeze and reveled in the overwhelming freshness that has overtaken my living space. I spent some time in front of the bathroom mirror on the brink of a connection with myself. I have had this conversation with *people* recently. as I transition from the imaginative, creative, intense realm of sleep to a filtered reality I stand and watch myself. often I feel so close to making a connection. this man appears before me, interesting and full of all kinds of exotic ideas, and I silently implore for him to connect meaningfully with the *present tim*. always so close, but always I drift into normalcy, *behavioral patterns*, speech and breakfast. so I find myself eating my bagel and writing a missed connection to myself on craigslist.  
  
another day. yesterday I had a brilliant run. I ran to minnehaha parkway and then around lake harriet. the temperature, the wind, and my primarily shaded route offered the kind of experience that is more than just a struggle against dehydration and fatigue. I fell into an almost unconscious pattern of propulsion that was a mirrored image of my body lost somewhere midpoint between sleep and *breakfast*. I was aware and conscious, but capable of an intimacy with my own thoughts and ideas that meant nothing simply slipped away. nothing was disregarded. it ended too quickly. I read, listened to music, felt sympathy and drank ice cold water.  
  
*sympathy*. I have become increasingly aware of an unsympathetic way of living both in myself and the people around me. my idea: do not *resist*. the fundamental problem cannot be solved by standing on one side of a door while someone tries to burst through the other side. that is not any more healthy than opening the door and punching each other in the face. it is still conflict, but it is conflict without human characteristics. it is not sympathy, compassion or love. it is a self indulgent exhibition of one's own superiority. *I am capable of allowing for your offensive behavior.* the real solution is to eliminate conflict and cease experiencing in an unsympathetic manner.  
  
anyway, the pattern: it is time to leave for work. tim