---
title: "smiling idiotically: part I"
date: "2008-05-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

It happens that I become ebullient, completely in love with a stranger for a few hours and lost to conversation or sense. My actions become mindless and mechanical, but often I lack the fundamental sequences and resources to deliver them sensibly or in the proper order. For instance, I will paw at my coffee cup in the mid afternoon when all that remains is a cold drop or two. This is just to have something in my hands, to create a degree of regularity while my mind is not functioning as it should. Like a drunk person pulled over by a police officer, I feign regularity while remaining ridiculous. I so rarely encounter that person with even the slightest capacity to enliven or embolden, that when I do my actions mimic those of a child lost to awe. Once, when I was young, I was looking up at some giant pine trees and tipped over backwards. I've forgotten so many things about my childhood, but not that sense of awe. It is the same feeling that I get when I am genuinely intrigued by a person, when I meet someone with whom I am not immediately bored or who does not instantly represent ideals that reflect a character incompatible with my life. For instance, the shoes. The posture. The visual acuity. 

It's morning now. And with what unlikelihood, even in my imagination, it is that two such similar glances should fall on opposing objects. How should I stand? What should I do with my face? and speech? No, inducing such a moment is not a matter of the will of one part or the other. It is purely descriptive, an assessment of something falling outside of the boundaries of regularity. Occasionally a voice will strike me in such a way, even when it is speaking idiotically or if it has its origin in the most ugly, insidious creature I could imagine. 

The sky is gray and I am finished dreaming. In my dream I was running. My feet were scarred. It hurt. I was barefoot. This stranger of intrigue, how much she resembled the other one, except that her features were simpler, more muted, and she was wearing the shoes that I had been wearing when I met her. And again, I think that I am dreaming, fortifying images with details that I've intentionally mixed up, interwoven. Somehow we are stuck there--my shoes on your feet and your eyes in my head. The conversation is the same and instead of Delillo I am reading Maughan. Everything else is the same, except that I've mixed up the time of day and the pattern of the clouds in the sky. But then I dreamt of running, tenses confused in planes of irrationality. "Excuse my human touch," it murmured. I started to think more clearly, employing a trick that I've often used in my dreams: I work through mathematical problems. For some reason, when I am dreaming I cannot do mathematics. Either I look at the paper and everything is blurry or the numbers are incomprehensible. I have used this trick in the past to convince myself that I am awake. But what if I'm wrong? What if this is a dream world conceived of mathematics? The approximate points plotted out with respect to an x and a y axis, relationships between strangers nothing more than mathematical sums comprised of histories and memories. And again, it is morning in this world of dreams.