---
title: "It's October 26th"
date: "2008-10-26 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

and it's snowing­--not heavy and it won't stick around, but it's snowing. The past two years we haven't seen snow until December and January. I was out on my road bike when it started. It seemed hilarious. I didn't believe the icon on the forecast and didn't bother checking the radar before I left. I cut my ride short. It put me at 761 miles for the month so far, which projects a finishing total over 900. I've had two excellent months for cycling and it's going to be a rough transition into winter. If I ride four hundred fewer miles each month (four-fifty would be a good winter total) that will leave me with somewhere around twenty-five extra hours each month. Additionally, if I work four fewer hours each week at work that will give me forty hours a month, the equivalent of an average work week of unallocated time. My intention is to split this time between a few activities: running, winter sports, reading, movies, sleep, and the bathtub (which can then be combined with any of the others). I got my netflix account rolling again and watched my first movie in a few months, Tim Burton's The Corpse Bride. It was great. Simple, predictable, but great. 

Yesterday Dave upgraded his Bionx to the more powerful model and I took his old model. The bionx is an electric assist system that turns a slow bike into a fast bike. I rode home with Dave, spending most of my time cruising between 18-20mph and showing an average computer speed of 17mph. I was working just as hard as I would have been normally, but instead of going 13-15mph I was going 18-20mph. I was impressed with how seamless it seemed. I turned it on and aside from adjusting the assist level I really couldn't tell that it was there. I just felt supremely strong. This feeling faded quickly when I turned the system off. Then I was just riding my slow cargo bike. I was a bit torn about making the leap. It really wasn't about resource consumption, as the environmental impact of the small amount of electricity has been argued to be less detrimental than the equivalent impact of the food that would be required to fuel the body for that same effort. No, it was (and still is) about vanity. Thus, I have reached the following compromise: limit the Big Dummy to trips that are bettered by faster transportation (i.e. don't ride it on my commute to work where I intentionally divert my route to log miles; do ride it to the grocery store, the book store, menards, social gatherings, and in any other situation where time is a concern), and keep the miles in a completely separate category from my pure cycling miles. It needs to remain a tool that I use in situations where it is the best tool, not an addiction/expectation.