---
title: "I'll need pogies!"
date: "2009-11-20 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

living very primitively. desiring sex. etc. occasionally "feeling" vindictive and violent, structurally divisive (!!) he thinks he's the passionate one... for instance, today we were mingling, co-mingling, inter-mingling. the bastard asked me, "could you help out?" 'sorry dude, afraid not.' I dropped a nickel on the ground, scooped it up, thought briefly about offering him the thirty cents that I had in my pocket. loading up beer in the pockets of my bicycle. "how much do one of those costs?" 'a couple hundred.' "carry people?" 'yeah, people, if you're so inclined.' it felt like forever as I tried to align my fingers with the corresponding holes in my glovetins. fuck. sonofagun. wrapping, coiling. all around the city with its quivering genitals hidden in its pants, dreaming of homeboy bonanza. so I turn, wheelie, project, analectically, misdeeming, capitalizing at will. today: modified "okay". conceptually it was fine. some of this, some of that. bullshit in the sky. example: those motherfucking planes that drag banners through the sky during sporting events selling deodorant. my right ear is fucked up. filled with fluid. phlegm. poetry. I looked at the sonofabitch and resented his poverty, resented that he exemplified the silent threat of the civilized, the notion that I am somehow not more than two or three sidesteps away from sitting outside of hum's trying to hold a conversation through interjections of, can you help out? WHAT? what the fuck do you want? I was across the street at S-A reviling REWARD POINTS when the cashier decided it was time to play matchmaker with two unwilling, disinterested participants. she was giddy. beside herself. MOTHERLY. overriding sense. fantasizing. so today I didn't do much of anything. periodically experienced anxiety and art. brushed teeth. consumed foods. experienced most senses. espoused bullshit. engaged in rhetoric. disdain from afar. experienced skin. regretted automation. invited candor.

I have been thinking of entering the north shore ultra. 88 miles of snowbiking on january second. snowbiking is the fashion. the new fixed gear. pogies and pbr. kickshits and smoking fresh breath ripping up the morning sunglinted air. sunshine. self-righteous-malevolence. etc. I have been thinking of entering this snowbike race because I have a snowbike and nothing much going on that day. yeah. I'm going to enter when I finish writing this blog. fuck. it. I'll need pogies!

listening carefully so that I can be disgusted. a flaw that I've witnessed. sensually prepared to experience sensations of the senses. always dripping with the last second of someone else's reality, caught up in the dripping afterglow of a moment that occurred, tangentially, sexually, misdirectionally. fucked up. balled up inside covert ideas of self and unself. piecing together a false autonomy out of charity. this loveless thing that takes smallsteps and stabs with knives. this loveless thing that consumes as it senses.

blog done!