---
title: '9am'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

In June we moved in together--complex, unknown and unknowable entities, each our own secret destroyer, languishing in what could only be described as fantasy. I would pass by each window, turning the blinds or tugging the shade, while he lurked in the darkness. Wild, bedraggled, deranged and delusional, he moved silently through the night waiting to reemerge as the thing that she loved. This morning she left with him. I woke up at 9am, hungover from another night of quietly fighting about the same thing: I am not him. Woman with daughter. Woman I love. Man, Men she loved. I go to bed early. I have a rigid schedule of getting sleepy in the PM and waking up in the AM. I am not interesting, ambitious, creative or passionate. I moved in with this woman and her child because I loved her. She was like me in so many of the ways that mattered, and she could make me laugh. It's been years since I've known someone who could genuinely make me laugh. No, people are always babbling in their subterranean language of stupidity, making puns, splicing dissimilar words and notions, piecing together things that are funny because of well concealed hatred. She saw the same absurdity and laughed about it in the same quiet way. When we talked our voices spiraled, synchronizing and blending the air between our mouths, the space in which our bodies existed in parity. I loved her. She made pictures with cameras, vectors, pens and pencils. She made them from angles that were interesting to me, and in doing so enlivened that slumberous part of my imagination that yearned to understand the world from an unbiased perspective, rejecting the visual mind control of existing in a particular demographic, at a static distance from the ground, for the rest of eternity. To die. To live. To think, feel and experience within the confines of limited physical attributes. Fuck. I was sick of being alone. It was not a physical disorder. It was not even necessarily an emotional or intellectual disorder. No, I have no better way to explain it than to say it shared the sentiment of carving your name into the trunk of a tree. It is the hope, the need, the compulsion to experience and interpret something in a way that is compatible with another lifeform. Hey, fuck, we are here at this impasse, this domain of despair, and in it we observe the same beauty, the same frivolity, the same fucking anything. It is not like that in life. We pass each other largely oblivious to the hopes, dreams, despair, pain, and love that are reflected back at us in the glassy eyes of these immediate strangers, these people who call each other friend, brother, sister, mother, father, lover, coworker, associate, and acquaintance. With her it was different. I could look in her eyes and there was something there. There was a connection, something that could not be quantified in the enumeration of identical attributes. This woman had a baby. In my adult life my feelings towards children have ranged from indifference to contempt, remaining always on the side of the scale where I'd rather not be around them. I have not known compassion because I have known no reason for it. I look at other people and feel nothing. Hollow. Between us only an endless void that, given equitably-ticked chronology and the faculty of language, cannot be breached by anything less than a open palm to the cheek. Nothing. Fuck. No communication or ability to feel anything for the experience that while superficially dissimilar, shares the marked characteristics of being that of a human in space and time. With this woman it was different. I felt compassion not only for her, but for her child. I was kind to her child. I was even growing to love her. In spite of a certain feeling that she would grow up to despise me, I allowed myself the liberty of feeling affection for this child. By a stranger's measure, I may have seemed lukewarm at best. It was infrequent that I acted ridiculous with loud voices and abrupt motions, but for me it was something, something amazing and life affirming. We moved in together in June. She was bipolar and if I consented to earnest medical observation I am sure that I would be declared mentally ill. The undulations of my unbalanced mind began to deviate more from level. Higher. Lower. I would be sure for days that we would soon be married. Then, without provocation, I would be sure that it was time to end things. Similarly, she assured me that she loved me and wanted to spend her life with me, and only me. Yet, when she grew unhappy and despondent it was because I did not have his characteristics. I did not stay up late. I did not express myself violently and emotionally. My job was important to me. Today she left me. With him. I am sure that I could have stopped it. It is painful. For months I have tried to hang on to her, always with the shadow of another family hanging over me, a family to whom she could and would return with only the slightest inconvenience. For months I have felt like I have been holding on to her like sand, watching as part of her slips through my fingers while I grip tighter trying not to lose the rest. People cannot live that way. People always live that way, except this time it was on a microscale. Rather than waiting for death to wrap its weary hands around our necks I waited for him to swoop in and take her back, knowing that in this drama I was only a minor character. I was a solitary man, and instead of being the one observing a man lurking in the darkness, I was the man lurking in the darkness. The villainous, angular, passionless character who would serve only to counterbalance the victory of the hero. The sad consideration is that the villain must go on living, his identity wound up in a plot wherein he no longer serves a purpose. I woke up today, 9am, and found myself without any reason to continue. For a long time I laid on the bed watching the haphazard revolution of the second hand as it dissected the meaningless minutes. It did not move fluidly, at times lurching forward to keep itself in sync with life passing into nothingness.