---
title: 'john dillinger the mouse, captured'
date: "2010-02-01 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

for the past week john dillinger the mouse has been keeping me awake at night. he's really quite terrible at being a mouse--noisy, clumsy, etc. a few hours ago I saw him sneak towards the front door. it was my chance. I didn't know how I was going to do it, but I was going to catch him. I cornered him into the front closet, moving items around, studying his movements. it suddenly occurred to me that I could use a wire basket to trap him. I used a broom to keep him away from door. if he got out of the closet I wouldn't be able to find him. I grabbed the last storage container from the closet, flung it aside and covered him with the basket. he was freaking out, jumping around. I went to get something to slide under the basket. I wasn't sure what I was going to do with him at that point. I contemplated temporarily storing him in clementine's plastic lego container until I figured out what to do with him. (I don't like killing things, but I also don't like living with john dillinger the mouse) I finally figured out an object that I could use: the flat metal fat tire sign in the kitchen. when I went back to the closet I found him on his side, eyes open, body stiff and unmoving. I was skeptical. I tapped on the basket. nothing. I waited. I lifted the basket slightly and prodded him. nothing. since I didn't strike him in any way I assume that he must have died from the terrifying thirty minute chase. heart attack? fear? I don't know. I put his body in the yard for the stray cats. the cycle of life continues.