---
title: 'presentation'
date: "2009-02-21 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

A couple of days and I will be in Hawaii. Strange. When I think about it. It's snowing. Just done snowing. About to snow. Cold. Fingers vaguely dead when they touch anything. Faintly reminiscent of "falling out of love". Only with textures. Whites. Blacks. Reds. Anomalies. My hair is a bit too long at the moment. I can feel it just touching the top of my t-shirt when I scrunch my neck over the keyboard. Keypad. Touchscreen. Slide-rule. Technology. Affirmation of self worth. I'd for sure work for less before I'd work for more. I am presently reading a book with five narrators, one of whom I adore. Towards the others my sentiments range from disinclined to savagely hateful. Twenty, thirty, forty pages at a time just to return to my Adah. There is genius in wanting her.

Today I rode my bike to Dave's and then we drove to an moonscraper. The smell just beyond the sliding panes of glass was singular. Antiseptic? Conditioned? For an hour and a half a three person panel relayed disjointed euphemisms, snippets from half digested volumes on effective techniques for growing a business. Like sifting through dog shit. I wonder if he talks like that all of the time? Or if it was a special voice reserved just for that well lit room. That room that glowed unconditionally with the lingering rays of powerpoints and PDA. Public display of antipathy. Public display of ambivalence. Public display of (the) antiquated. Always in antiquity with my rearwards thinking. I liked her ass. Her shoes were nice too. Just the right walk. Still feminine, but with stride, with confidence. The communication of her body in that space was much more profound than the encapsulated nuggets that comprised the collective weekend-mania. I learned what I want. Her. Right. Finger gestures. Puppeteering. I was so fucking clueless, communicating shoulder shrugs and perpetual gaze aversion. Perpetual inventory-ing. Radical assessment of 1=2. The powerpoint lent a shoulder halo. Ringer off. Double check. Wait. Check this: if 1=2 then 2=3 or "whatever". Periodic reinvention of quantity. I had already watched her a bit too deliberately when something strange happened. My sense of time dictated that it ought to be nearing an end. I wildly swiveled in search of a clock when she re-entered the room, making it seem as though I'd turned to look at her. Even given the certainty of my thought I questioned whether my movement was not guided by a subterranean intuition, and if I had been anyone else I would have been sure of it. Perversion!

We reemerged in the trafficstream just as it was at its worst. Snow dripping through a permanent gray ooze that had overcome the space once held by sky. Jetliners ascend. Descend. Bass. Planning.

Now I am thinking about Hawaii again. Thinking about a long road ride around the island on a folding bike. Almost methodical in its classical weirdness. I should have grown a beard and downloaded an appropriately patterned, slightly too large button down shirt. Tropical paradise. Vehicular heaven. Like planning my own intervention.