---
title: 'billing cycles'
date: "2005-10-17 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

i fell asleep after work yesterday, waking up for only two hours to eat and reply to emails before falling asleep again and sleeping until 6am this morning. i sorted through my mail and paid my bills--only one of them was past due this round. i owe myself a beer. the credit card companies are going to think i've entered a new era of responsibility and bombard me with notices that my credit limit has been raised to $100,000. surely they must realize that they've already extended me beyond the limit of what i will be able to pay back in my lifetime. they must have more faith in me to succeed than most of the actual people in my life, save a few. quite honestly, i could have slept for at least a few more hours, though i was already beginning to be plagued by strange and rather horrifying dreams--old friends turned cruel. i haven't worked on my homework all weekend. that marks every weekend since school has started wherein i have promised to be more diligent and work on things before monday evening. the four day w(eek)orkend just seems like too great of a length of time--surely i will have enough time later to finish what i need to finish if only i can weather another day's work. the people at work have turned into an awful lot-- perhaps worse than roseville. they've reached a point where they don't even know what they're complaining about anymore. it reminds me of the teenage goths who aren't sure what they are sad or upset about, only that they are certain that something is not right. unfortunately, while the teenage goth is rarely in a position of power, the agitated target employee typically is (at least in relation to some other poor sap, oftentimes me) and has no quarrel with expunging their spiritual filth on their underlings. i spend my days reminding myself that they go home to their own awful minds and don't need my staunch reproach to facilitate any further scorn. i should get ready for work now.