---
title: "swimming with ideas: part I"
date: "2008-08-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I'm taking the first week of September off from work. The past few days I've been kicking around ideas for things to do over the course of a week. My first idea was to log as many miles as possible on my road bike, using the first week to launch myself toward a 1000 mile month. My second idea was to go on an extended Pugsley or Big Dummy trip, possibly exploring the "boundary segment" of the willard munger trial conglomerate. It is an offroad trail primarily used for snowmobiling that apparently gets quite overgrown during the summer. I have no idea how passable it would be, but eighty miles through a state park and two state forests seems intriguing. Lastly, I have considered doing nothing at all except reading books, going on short runs, and trying to recover from what has been a hectic summer. The second option elicits the greatest emotional response­I certainly feel that I want to do it the most, but lurking in my mind is the reality that it will be lonely, I will be assaulted by mosquitoes, and there is a good chance that I will get lost and/or not reach my destination. There's also a chance that it'll be perfectly maintained and will only take a few hours to traverse...in which case I'll have certainly planned improperly allocating way too much time and taking the wrong bike. 

I'm in the process of limiting my possessions. I have too many things. Every couple of days I'm trying to inventory some aspect of my life and either sell or donate those things that are of no use to me. I hate the feeling of unfamiliarity that accompanies infrequently used things. For instance, a seldom ridden bicycle­one must check the tire pressure, ensure that he has the required tools for on the road repairs, and once again remember how to steer the thing. I'm selling two of my bicycles currently, and contemplating a third. Pugsley and the Big Dummy are the only two bikes that I know I cannot sell. All of the rest are acquaintances from whom I receive a mixed bag of joy, suffering and betrayal. Since August 1st I have lost 10.5 pounds. From the end of the marathon to the beginning of August I allowed myself to become rather lazy, riding no more miles than I did even in those days when I was vigorously training for a marathon. My eating habits were loathsome, and my once vibrant will power and passion had eroded to commonplace regret and helplessness. Fuck that. I've taken control, I've set out on a quest that, however arbitrary, will tap into that primal yearning that I have to _really fucking want something_. My weight loss surely can't continue at this rate, but I feel good about the start. I went running today and it was apparent that I'm getting lighter. There is still a long distance to go, but I'm only on day fourteen of a plan that will span three hundred and thirty three days. 

I'm sleepy. It's afternoontime. There are a number of ideas swimming in my head as to how I want to spend the rest of my day. I feel like I'm a flutter of the eyelids away from dropping to the floor and remaining there until the night is dark and the opalescent cityscape drowns me in its indifference. OH, how the nightmares have compiled. I apparently remember bodies much better than I can when I'm trying to draw them. I can never seem to get the proportions correct until I am unconscious and twitching.