---
title: "problems with locks"
date: "2008-12-15 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

The temperature was 44 degrees colder than the last time I'd been outside. I was ready. I was going to ride directly to work, spend twenty or thirty minutes on the elliptical machine and go about my day as if it were any other day. Of course, it was not. It is not. Looking at the handle of the garage door I immediately knew that it was frozen. I tried my key anyway. It didn't work. No problem. If I could avoid the pickup-plow recklessly speeding back and forth through our parking lot I could just get a lighter and a hammer and be on my way in a few extra minutes. On my first tap a line spidered its way through the handle. C racked. Split. Shit. The door was open so I grabbed my bike, not fully comprehending the situation until I tried to lock the door. No luck. Broken. I brought my bike inside and found the caretaker's number. "Our garage door lock is cracked. etc." "We'll take a look at it in a couple hours." The revised plan became: ride straight to work and then work. As soon as I got outside everything on my bike stopped working. Frozen. I couldn't shift. The rims were covered in ice. I couldn't operate the brake levers with my mittens. Larpenteur looked like it had been plowed with a lawn rake. ETC . It was only two miles. No problem. Once I got off of Larpenteur things weren't too bad. The wind was either at my back or my side. I couldn't tell exactly, but it wasn't in my face and that's all that mattered. I made it to work. The county cycles guy was cutting through our parking lot. It was nice to see another cyclist.