---
title: "month in review: part I"
date: "2008-02-01 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

It's been a strange month. The weather has been highly unpredictable, with temperatures varying as much as sixty degrees from day to day. The wind, my temperament, the color of the moon, my nightmares--they have all been shifting, becoming a gelatinous one whose color defies explanation. I have abandoned writing, opting instead to fill my time with reading or more wasteful pursuits such as videogames. All of my recent ideas have seemed redundant, played out. You've been writing the same things for years, she said. She was right. At times I realize this and decide that it would be better to read others who have had fresh and unique ideas, created characters with varying dimensions and capacities. At other times I grow arrogant and write them down anyway, injecting new language to make the worn out idea appear fresh and unique. But I know. As much as I have fallen in love with obscurity, I have failed to conceal from myself that notion that I am only thinking of new ways in which I might hide the same idea in different words. I was at the bookstore this evening and the girl at the register asked me how the night was for bicycling. Great, I answered. She proceeded to explain why she had not ridden her bicycle that day. I tried to smile, wondering why she would feel the need to justify herself to me. Am I perpetually judgmental? even when I am just standing in line waiting to pay for my books? There are certain people who find me hateful. I watched Raging Bull today. A series of small mistakes, a crack in the foundation of one's character, and then there is ruination. I have not made that many missteps, but enough that my life is nothing like I would have imagined it had I not made them. They have become the defining and unifying elements of my existence. Is this how I have become hateful? ...my nature now bound to a series of small mistakes that have altered the definition of my being? It is essential, I think, that I not allow this transmutative degeneration to become permanent. But what do I do? I have been sleeping when it pleases me, although I am often mistaken and lured into sleep only to find myself amidst the undercurrent of intensity that surfaces as indifference. For instance, it is past midnight. For a long time last year I was always in bed before 11pm. I looked forward to the moment at which my head would contact the pillow and I would be allowed the temporary ability of partial transcendence. I felt so beautiful. It was at that moment of assessment that I realized how little there was to my constitution. There was beauty. There was suffering. There was essence. Yet, it did not require my own death to circumnavigate my senses and arrive at a general dereliction of emotion. 

It's morning. As if to taunt me my dreams last night were mundane, twists on regular instances wherein I behaved as if I were awake. I could have stayed in that world and never known the difference. Upon reflection the illogic of both time and space are apparent, but while immersed it is more difficult to identify such things, to say, "I was not here a moment ago--what's happened? Things have shifted and people are not acting sensibly." During the month of January I focused on displacing this undercurrent in the deception of physical strength. I ran--cold, wet and incoherent I ran until my limbs were numb and my body ached, though not really so far when conceptualized as miles. I lifted weights. I rode my bicycle. Further, I spent much of my time thinking about the orchestration of these things. And not just in the immediate­I constructed a canvas on which I projected myself becoming physically stronger and more deformed with each passing moment. Slowly I became less and less like the thing that I was and am in my dreams. The similarities became obscured, like ideas buried in language whose aim is imprecision, whose objectivity resides in its ownerlessness. We seek monstrosity and deformation, to became things so distant from the workings of our minds that we are no longer responsible for our physical actions. The mind takes time to adapt to physical change. Something broken, something old, something withered, something strong--the mind adjust slowly. It took me ages to remember not to chew on my broken wisdom tooth. In my mind it existed differently and when I looked at it I felt no association with it. Slowly, however, it has become a part of me. I have snapped back like a rubber band. 

I have been reading. I have been seeking insanity--books that examine the workings of the mind at its most ill. And once, and once again, I find myself at a new beginning.