---
title: "seeking excitement: part I"
date: "2008-07-23 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I have been extremely tired this past week. It seems like I have had to force myself to do even the most menial tasks. Sunday I cleaned the apartment. It took forever and was bookended by naps. Monday through Wednesday I rode straight to work and straight home. Normally my morning commute ranges from 10-25 miles. Riding directly is no more than two miles. It feels strange. Saturday night I went camping with some of my coworkers. The ride was pretty awful. My body felt awkward and the connection between my mind and legs felt strained. It wasn't that I was tired exactly, but the will to connect mind and body simply wasn't there. After walking the railroad tracks for an hour in search of a rogue campsite, we ended up spending the night on a baseball field at William O'brien. I didn't sleep well, waking up early and walking around the park until daybreak. The mosquitoes were relentless. I liked the idea of a morning walk, but once I started walking I began thinking about how distant I felt from everything around me. The signs prohibiting the gathering of firewood elicited a sense that I was experiencing nothing more than a cross-sected exhibition of nature. The unfortunate thing is that there is no alternative. This is all that has been saved. Had we not been able to sleep on the state park baseball field we would have gone fifty miles before finding unclaimed land, land where we could fearlessly pitch our tents and spend the night. On the way home I felt equally dull on my bicycle. Everyone rode hard for the first hour and then bonked. I was itching for a cup of coffee so I continued without them. I got home and had a cup of coffee. It was delicious. For the past twenty minutes some assholes have been setting off fireworks in the field behind my apartment. It is wednesday night, approximately 11:20pm. It is because people do not think that benign acts are interpreted as sinister acts. So I have been tired, or disinterested. Emotionally disinvested. The lady who tells fairytales on the radio kept using the word "incentivized" this morning. I was sure that it wasn't a real word. I figure that being perpetually tired could be very simple: too much work and too much physical activity. Or it could be even simpler: too little interest in chronologically relevant things and too few connections to other human beings. It could be very complicated: some bizarre nutritional deficiency or slow metabolic poisoning. It could in fact be self willed and have no origin other than a subconscious decision made as a result of some failed or ingenious logic. Nonetheless, I am tired. I look at the dirty dishes in the kitchen and I know that I should clean them, but didn't I just do that two days ago, and two days before that? It's always the same. I should write a journal entry, but I am too tired to string together words, and haven't I said these things before? I should read. I have been struggling with the same book for over a month, maybe over two months. I have read others in between, but my book reading has dropped from 2-4 per month, to fractions of one. I have clicked around to different windows, reading posts about stolen bicycles on craigslist and looking at my google reader. I have no interest in maintaining this direction of thought. Maybe I'll just go to bed.