---
title: "in the quiet: part I"
date: "2007-07-21 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

it's really weird, but my lower legs have been very itchy for the past week or so. their outward appearance is unaltered--­no signs of bug bites, rash, irritation, etc. I claw furiously at myself, trying to numb the unceasing agitation. I think, disease? no. can't be. I look at my calves and I am sure they are larger than they have been. it could be swelling from the abuse that they've been forced to endure, or new muscle developed to accommodate for a shift from cycling to running. the calf muscles go rather under-utilised with clipless cycling pedals, so they are definitely being exposed to new stresses. could it be muscular? perhaps the connective tissue that has already proved problematic in other capacities. maybe it's just fluid or overly taut skin. it could be my bedsheets, but I have been rotating the same meager few sets for over two years without problem. two nights ago I was sure it was just a case of dry skin. I must have smelled like cherry blossoms for the next twenty-four hours. the issue will likely go unresolved. 

I started preparing for my move by working my way through the cluttered garage. I have acquired a lot of shit in the past year and a half. interestingly, today I unloaded one of my extra bike frames on Mark Seeley. apparently he is a writer, public radio personality, and guru on all things climate related. I found out most of these things via google after Dave mentioned his mstram radio reports. 

the south wind was fairly brutal today. tomorrow night will bring my second century of the year (I fell only a bit short of a third on the xtracycle during my failed duluth trip), and if the wind does not shift it could be an unpleasant go of things. the group will either be large or small. it is very difficult to estimate since I have received only one confirmation, and that was from a person I have never met. there's the running assumption that jeff will attend, I'm confident that ryan will ride at least a portion, a couple of coworkers have produced offhanded maybes, and two others have expressed interest in this sunday's ride but have made no specific contact. it would be interesting to ride in a seven or eight person group, but instinct tells me that it will be a much smaller group. oh well. I'm excited to ride the new and improved crosscheck. I was going to ride it fixed, but decided against it at the last moment to be sure not to re-aggravate the knee problem that's been bugging me for the past couple weeks. I slapped on a different rear wheel and a ten speed cassette. I gave it a brief test ride today and was very pleased with the 1×10 setup. it provides a very useful range of gears without the bitchiness of crosschaining. the friction barend shifter was also delightful in its subversive simplicity. all of this giddiness subdued the anger that I normally would have felt arriving at work to find that my rear tire had a giant chunk of staple in it. yes, this is the second time I have found a giant staple in my tire. the cut was so severe that I was forced to replace the tire that had no more than two hundred miles on it. I fear that this will be the flavour of my blogs until autumn when I have more time to settle my thoughts. right now it is about momentum.