---
title: "running with/from desperation: part I"
date: "2008-05-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Instead of riding today, I tried to get in a long run. It's a about forty days until the marathon and I am decidedly under prepared. I'm basically in last ditch effort mode, which consists of a no frills training routine comprised of doing just enough long runs in just enough time to complete the marathon. This is week two of the plan desperation, and after a surprisingly good first week I went into the run concerned that it was a fluke. I ran with my friend Joey who is attempting to run his first marathon at grandma's. As it was our first serious run together we had no idea what to expect of each other. I started out way too fast. The first four miles were brisk, downhill, with a tailwind and fresh legs. This would hurt as later in the run as the finish was into a stiff headwind and almost entirely uphill. We reached the campus and found the door to one of the buildings--normally closed on sundays--ajar, so we snuck inside for a bonus water break. I was feeling great. My legs felt fresh and getting bonus fluids early in the run was a huge benefit. We ran along the Minneapolis side of the river, making excellent progress. At nine miles I felt like I had only been out for a stroll. We crossed back to the Saint Paul side of the river and were met with another surprise water stop at Summit. The fountains had been turned on since the last time I was through. Two bonus water stops certainly meant that the rest of the run would be easy. After running up Pelham we reached our third bonus water stop at Destroyer Park. I suddenly realized that I was extraordinarily hungry. We reached the Hampden coop and stopped for a banana break. I normally don't eat bananas as they make my digestive system function erratically, but it was the best fucking food I've eaten in a long time. At thirteen miles Joey's legs had enough of the hills and we took it easy back to the apartment. I probably would have been able to push through another five miles, but I'm a long way off from being able to complete the full distance. With only four long run opportunities remaining things are looking grim.

Last night I rode to the grocery store in the rain. It was the perfect temperature, texture and volume. I wasn't quite wet or cold, and the sound of my tires on the wet concrete was lovely. We needed milk. The cashier was tiny and mean spirited. She didn't like speaking to customers, and when she did it was condescending. Mascara was smeared below her right eye. She seemed evil, or devastated. The man in front of me had a six pack of mountain dew bottles and requested two packs of marlboro reds. First, he paid $3.59 with EBT, then a few dollars with EBT C ASH, and then two dollars and some change of his own money. I was absolutely mortified to learn that he could use such services to buy either bottled soda or cigarettes. If you can afford cigarettes, you can afford food without government assistance.