---
title: "almost hatred: part I"
date: "2007-06-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Cycling
tags:
---

This morning I went to the grocery store to load up on supplies for the ride to Minnetonka this evening. Upon arriving, I noted that one of the two cashiers on duty was amongst a handful of my least favorite people in the world. I have encountered this woman on a number of occasions and made it my objective to never speak to her again. It started several months ago. Things seemed well enough as I sorted my things on to the conveyor belt, making note of geometric similarities and pleasant color combinations. At the grocery store I sometimes lose myself in such things­the rows and rows of bright things, shapely things and extravagant things sometimes overwhelm me. She started talking, feverishly. I assumed that perhaps she was new to her job and only trying to make a good impression by showing interest in her customers. I indulged her chatter but was quickly shut up by not the slightest regard for my participation in her communique. She pressed on, covering such diverse topics as her father's love of burritos and the financial complexities of living with her aging parents. There was no room for me to speak, but if I attempted to look away she would talk louder and more rapidly. Finally, I conceded, glazing my eyes and submitting to the endless babble. Since that time I have gone through her line on at least two other occasions, each time suffering the same lopsided discourse. This morning I was once again funneled into her line as the friendly old man on lane eight closed up shop. I contemplated waiting for him to return or for the next cashier to begin his or her shift. I opted to take my chances. She began by marveling in rather condescending splendor at the amount of tuna that I was purchasing, which parlayed into an explanation of the sandwiches that she would make for her father (this included egg salad­his favorite, tuna salad, and something she called a "lindy"), which then naturally flowed into a story about how her cats like tuna but she does not because it is too dry. I zoned out. As I was leaving she started frantically yelling at the woman to my left that she had forgotten her survey. The woman smiled at me and continued to ignore the outraged cries of my least favorite cashier. It is amazing how little this outrageous cashier seems to care about the rest of the world while simultaneously assuming that the world wants to know her thoughts on absolutely everything. I am fascinated by the lives of other people, but not to the point that I want to subvert my own humanity to become nothing more than a receptacle for a bleeding, bubbling wound that does not see anything except the vacant outline of a thing which absolutely may not contain a consciousness. 

Last night I ate dinner with my parents at Old Chicago. I tried a new (to me, anyway) blend of surly beer. It made me alarmingly happy. I &lt;3 surly.
