---
title: "dictated from space: part I"
date: "2007-08-03 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
tags: ['moving']
---

Yesterday I spent most of the day trying to collect my usual things and arrange them such that I could return to a daily routine. Food, dishes, laundry­that sort of thing. The laundry room at the new apartment is truly exotic. Aside from being somewhat limited in its capacity, the amenities and ambiance easily surpass the creepy dungeon like quality of my last laundry room. I cannot easily describe it, except to say that it makes me feel as though I am living in luxury. This is also true of the garage, which lacks the deep craters, smashed door, makeshift lock, and general dilapidation of my last garage. My available space is certainly smaller, and I will have to grow accustomed to the newness of another person sharing it and the extent to which the carpeting covers the floor. I no longer feel perpetually solid footed or at ease mumbling to myself. Likewise, I cannot simply drop my pants in the kitchen because they have become tiresome. It's not something that I did regularly, but I did enjoy knowing that it was an option. I managed three loads of laundry and the beginnings of a system of organization. My ode to regularity. My tribute to a system of symbols. I had a dream about killing zombies or vampires. I felt the hesitancy of the dagger as it pressed its way through its victimflesh. In the evening I announced that a tire was retired and that I could not catch a fat man on my evening run. The fellow chugged by me, sweating delightfully, his body a springing gyration away from complete and total meltdown, his discombobulated limbs pushing onward to meet his girlfriend two thirds of the distance and then again two thirds later. Not only could I not catch him, but he pulled further off on to the horizon and I was left to trod delicately home on my glass feet, knowing that I was indeed, rather slow. It was a supreme show of confidence and commitment, dashing past me twice with a look of disdain, completely saturated, fighting the air for more of it. This is my ode to self inflicted suffering. The smells here are different. The landscape is barren. I can look for miles, cock my ears and not hear even the slightest of a derelict, hungry soul yelling out for no other reason than to be noticed in its smallness, to elevate somehow above the noiseless ones that go about their daily business without fuss or recognition. Dutifully becoming imposing, opposing images of inflated accumulations of falsehoods, asking from the quiet that they bare their teeth and stamp their feet on the ground in a display of animalism and anarchism­ripping, tearing, biting, fucking and faltering. When I walk out my front door now it is antiseptic. The road away is slightly downhill in every direction. I have achieved something vain and arbitrary, but I am in love with it anyway. My accomplishments, my rise to esteemed vigour, my absolute cleverness in being disaffected. I took a break to go running. My legs felt weird.
