---
title: 'pugsley self destruction'
date: "2010-04-02 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

we decided that we would go camping yesterday. by late afternoon I wasn't really into the idea. lately sleep has represented recovery for both my mind and my body, and the idea of swinging precariously above a swamp seemed incompatible with my morale. nonetheless, I loaded up the pugsley anyway. I hadn't ridden the pugsley since february. the problems started early when I had to replace the valve core in my front tube because I could not open the presta valve. within a few miles I heard the unmistakable ping of a spoke breaking. the vicious cycles rims put the non-drive spokes at an obscene angle going into the nipple, so I have had persistent problems with spokes breaking at that bend. later I would have to listen to a rhythmic, unceasing and embarrassingly loud cracking sound that synced with my pedaling motion. I think it's time to roll pugsley back downstairs until I have the motivation to give it a complete overhaul...or maybe I just sell it and start looking at 907s.

anyway, camping. we started towards lilydale. the road was covered in mud so we opted to ride along the train tracks. it was slow going and alex nelson was stumbling along on regular mountain bike tires. I stepped in a couple of very foul smelling pools of filth. my toes felt I had taken a bath in shit and failed to dry them before putting them in ziploc bags. yeah, that gross. no excuses though for what comes next. "hey guys, I don't think I want to go camping tonight. I just want to...go home, drink a beer and watch an episode of family guy." it was uncharacteristic of me and even hypocritical given the way that I accost anyone who bails out on me. I offered to let them join me. the offer was accepted and the ride changed to a river loop on pugsleys carrying just a bit too much stuff. we watched television, drank a couple beers, they left and I went to bed. it was really a much more pleasant evening for me than if I had gone camping.