---
title: 'sitting on the kitchen floor'
date: "2009-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

it is afternoon. done with work earlier than usual. I am sitting on the uneven kitchen floor. there is a small patch of light shining on the floor to my right. in it there are two strands. grass, corn innards, or someone's hair--I don't know. it is strange. to the left a flake from an onion. or garlic. it's small and I can't be sure. the kitchen towel is draped over the oven handle. I have never used it. instead I use the stove top and the grill. I can't see the grill from here, but if I look at the window sill I can see a bottle of lighter fluid. there are images of cars on bottles of lighter fluid and bags of charcoal. various numbers stamped on box shaped racing cars. I am drinking a beer. I should decide on dinner before it is too late and I am too hungry to think. but I won't. instead I will watch the sifted afternoon sunlight flicker and disappear from my kitchen floor. in front of me there is a large metal storage rack. the shelves are enormous. one shelf could contain all of the items on the rack and there are four shelves. many things for holding coffee. three. four? I'm not sure. I like this kitchen. it is the right size and it has windows. low windows. two of them, and at the other end there is an entrance to another room. it is not confined. the kitchen at my last apartment reminded me of a coffin. two people trying to maneuver inside of it was either comical or infuriating, depending on mood and circumstance. this kitchen is different. there are corners to it. I can look out at the sky. my hands are dry and my beard is beginning to curl into the corners of my mouth. it is the middle of summer. the days are quite long. I have not been sleeping enough. behind this house there is an alley. I have been in it only twice, but lately I will sit on the porch at night eating ice cream and watching the "stars". I like it. with my longer commute and increased running I have been losing weight while eating everything in sight. so I sit on the deck and eat ice cream. a project, I tell myself, so I don't waste away into nothingness (ha ha). but I will waste away into nothingness. only years from now. perhaps many, perhaps only a few. I don't know but I know that it ends in relative nothingness. today there was a sales rep in the bike shop. earlier there was a tax auditer. tomorrow there will be an insomniac and perhaps the next day a pervert. I don't know. I like to think that I somehow defy partial characterization. minor characters. minor places. upstairs dan just dropped something on the floor. it reverberated like a roll of cable. next to my fit there are marks on the floor. slight indents from a chair or a table. very few sounds. only now do I hear dan's roll of cable and the slight sound of careful footsteps. usually I hear nothing except the sounds of my own life. sounds that are changing. becoming different. my own sounds. her sounds. our sounds. I am sitting on the kitchen floor. thinking.