---
title: 'sunday ride'
date: "2009-03-16 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I wasn't very excited to ride my bike today. Weird. New bike. The best weather we've had in months. Fast tires. What the hell? Jeff couldn't make it this week. Maybe that was the problem. Maybe it just didn't seem that adventurous. Maybe it was the redundant route. Twenty miles of familiarity and I was ready to throw my bike into the same snowbank where I would bury my head. Fuck it. We decided to do something slightly different. Out to Military road and then to my favorite road ever. Lehigh. Lamar. Whatever. No lines. Few cars. You can see four different water towers at once. Maybe five. "Expansive". Forty miles of the wind smashing my face in. On Military road a couple of riders pulled up beside us. Skullman and Mike somebody-or-other. Weird! I saw the monsteroller in action. Double discs. Totally unnecessary. Clever anyway. We rode together for a few miles before they turned around to get back to burgers and chillaxing. More wind. I just wanted to get as far from home as possible, turn around and sail back towards Saint Paul at dangerous speeds. My spirits picked up after we turned around. It seemed like we went about twice as fast on the way back with half as much effort. We dodged Mounds and took the bike trail. Mistake? Maybe. We followed it down Shephard road. Cycling culture is funny. When you're on the road you hate the people on the MUP. I rang my bell, waved vigorously. What's up? Isn't this fun? A couple of girls from Birchwood tried really hard not to be charmed by the big brass sound of my bell, but eventually they conceded and offered reluctant smiles. I don't think the yellow citi helps. Not at all. Nor do the bars or my face. Whatever. My bike wasn't very comfortable. The handlebars were wrong. The frame was underwhelming. Noodly as hell. The rear brake rubbed from a standstill as the stays flexed wildly from side to side. Sometimes bikes just aren't right. My Raleigh is noodle, but it doesn't matter because free things have different standards. We stopped just shy of seventy-five miles. No century this week. It was great to be outside and I'm glad that nice weather is here. I just wasn't that into it this week. We didn't stop for coffee mid-ride. Maybe that was the real problem. In any case, there's always next week.