---
title: 'deliberation'
date: "2009-12-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

for years I have halfheartedly embarked on a quest to eliminate the excessive accumulation of things that accompanies adulthood. at times I have felt like I was succeeding, only to lose focus and start collecting shit again. it manifests itself in different forms. I often keep books even though I have read them and know that I will never read them again. I used to excuse myself for this behavior because I would write in them. I no longer do that. there's no reason to amass more shit on this planet because I want to cling to a book like a fading memory. someone else should have the opportunity to read it. then there are the things that have accumulated because they do not work, or their function is so limited that they require the acquisition of another, similar thing. gloves, for example, have piled up in my closet. I had a pair of neoprene gloves that I would only wear on rainy days when the temperature was between 35 and 39 degrees. ridiculous. when I bought them I thought that they would be more useful. this winter I have been using a pair of poagies on my bicycle. with their gussets I have been able to use them in conjunction with a single pair of gloves for temperatures ranging from -5 to 40. instead of owning seven things I would rather own two things that perform the same function. financial necessity has forced me to sell many of these things, but as I sit back and assess it, I am pleased. I need simplicity. I have decided that I will soon start a flickr set of all of the things that I own with descriptions of how and why I use them. it will be painstaking, tedious, and ultimately a waste of time. but I lack discipline, and without such a tedious project I would not seek out simplicity. I'm not sure what this says about me.