---
title: 'the decision'
date: "2009-01-16 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

Temperatures are finally above zero again after staying below zero for three consecutive days. This morning I woke up to a fiasco in my livingroom as the incompetent caretaker tried desperately to unthaw our frozen pipes with her hair dryer. "Oh," she muttered, "it's overheated." Her inefficient means of performing the task meant that she had plenty of time to bemoan the tragedy of being roused from her slumber more than once for the same problem. "My life is impossibly difficult..." and so on. I still wonder how she acquired her position. After over a week she finally told me that she had a new lock for our garage door, but that the installation was a two person task so she'd need my help. Strange, since I had replaced the lock a few days earlier at the meager expense of seven dollars and about ten minutes of my time. Somehow I also managed to do it on my own.

This foul stretch of weather has allowed me ample opportunity for gym workouts, riding the rollers, finishing this website and reading. It's also provided for proper consideration of running Grandma's marathon this year. Here is my decision: I have decided against doing the full marathon. Not running will free my schedule to do some of the things that I've had to sacrifice in recent years because my life has been consumed by endurance running. More cycling, more camping, more trail running, more weightlifting, more of whatever the fuck I feel like doing. I need more freedom and imagination. Dirt road bike rides, races, overnight stealth camping trips. I'm going to have a lot of fun this spring. Some of it will be running, but most of it won't be on the road. Trail running is much more interesting to me. Picnics, day tours, naps, tennis, golf. Whatever. I'll run a marathon again, maybe even this autumn, but after spending the winter like a hamster in a running wheel I cannot restrict my imagination to pounding out miles with my feet on the pavement.