---
title: "commuting: part I"
date: "2008-04-27 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 'Cycling'
tags: ['transportation']
---

I have a younger coworker who lives in woodbury and has shown interest in commuting to work by bicycle. Naturally, I have been overinterested in doing everything possible to facilitate a blossoming of this interest into habit. As such, lately I have been riding out to meet and then ride in with him on one or the other of the weekend days. The distance from my house to his is about nineteen miles, and from his house to the shop is about seventeen. It's a fairly daunting commute both in its distance and the fact that either point a, b, or c is in the heart of suburbia where there are only a handful of roads that go anywhere, and those are mostly four lane highways. This morning added another challenge: a reemergence of winter. I woke up at 5:45am. Snow blanketed the cars in the parking lot. I checked the weather channel and with mixed emotions digested the information that I would have a tailwind going and a headwind returning. Oh well, I thought, at least I can wait a bit longer to leave. Around 7am I left the house. The snow was falling steadily and the wind almost knocked me over as I left the parking lot. I glided effortlessly at twenty-plus miles per hour, pushed by a strong tailwind that left me at times without a large enough gear to even bother pedaling. About fifteen miles into my ride my rear derailleur stopped shifting. The gradual transformation of my bike into an icicle had left both cable and derailleur nearly immobile. I found that if I tugged my shifter in one direction and then quickly flicked it in the other it would shift, albeit unpredictably. Turning back to the west was unpleasant. The snow and sleet pelted my face and forward momentum took twice the effort and yielded half the speed as it had only a few moments earlier. 

Once at work I had a strange experience: two customers, both commuters, requested out of turn service in order to have their bike for the work week. The first requested only to have his rear wheel trued. After the wheel on the first bike was removed it became apparent that the problem was not the rim, but a tire sidewall that was giving out and causing a bulge. Easy enough­call customer, inform him that he didn't need his wheel trued but did need a tire, choose a similar tire, and proceed with the repair. The second requested to have his wheels trued, explaining that he had hit a pothole whose impressive depth was shrouded by standing water. After quickly checking the bike over I recommended new brake pads and a new chain. He was surprised that the chain had only given him about 1000 miles, but quickly agreed once I explained that given the weather conditions and the narrow ten speed chain that was a pretty typical lifespan. The first guy returns for his bike and immediately complains­in a very suspicious tone­that he couldn't see the spot on the sidewall, and then that the tire we put on his bike cost thirty dollars. He leaves. The second guy returns for his bike. I was nowhere near the register at the time, but he made a point of seeking me out to offer his appreciation, saying that I made his day and that he would certainly be back. It was bizarre to have two people in the same situation, given the same level of service, offer such different responses. 

When I got home from work I fought drowsiness until 7:45pm. I decided to take a quick nap. Twenty minutes. Maybe thirty. I woke up. It was dark. It took a moment to remember what had happened, that I'd been napping. I ate some food and went back to sleep, not waking up again until almost 6am. It felt wonderful. I've been so fucking tired lately and she just won't stop riding her bike.
