---
title: "on film and then paper: part I"
date: "2007-05-26 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

another funny bike shop story. the setup: guy comes in to the shop at two o'clock in the afternoon, oozing booze from every pore. we need your phone number so that we can call you when we're done fixing your bike, a coworker tells him. I miss his word what did he say? he said his phone was disconnected because the batteries in his headlight died and he ended up in a lake. this experience ruined his cellphone. I laugh too much, pretending not to believe the story. three days later I'm cutting through central park and almost end up in the lake. I think, wow it's not actually that unlikely. finished reading choke the other day. keep checking the weather. palahniuk has been the most consistently recommended author of my past ten years. tilt my head slightly rearward, smirk, saying, nope. I haven't read anything that he's written. I had this feeling that it would be pretentious, idealistic, pathological stuff that I would totally dig if I had thought of it first, but from between the glossy bookends of the counter-cultural would appear as total shit--contrived, skill-less murmurings on the punk rock baby monitor. I was only partially correct. it took me a while to find a rhythm, to visualize with any excitement the potential behind the nuance. I still only think of it as mediocre and would shun it in casual conversation unless sobriety escaped me long enough to confuse the pulpit with the confessional. this morning I went to the post office to pick up the package. the mystery of the package, the giddy allure of ripping it open, deciphering the handwriting and thinking this is how she or he would write my name--it was all too much. I couldn't bear the notification of my package sitting at its terminal destination over the inconsequential holiday. the click tocking of the box clock patterning out all kinds of curious shapes of what might be waiting for me on the other side of crimped, sodden cardboard. so you write in all caps with the first letter of each of my names a bit larger than all of the rest. it makes me seem distinguished. there are a few extra labels on this one, like it's been kicked around and lost a few times. I get to the post office around 9:20am, planning to be out by 9:40am at the latest so as to make it to work by 10am. I am surprised to be the third person in line. surprised that anyone else would wake up on a saturday morning and think, I need to get to the post office right fucking now. the man in front of me is holding a large bubble envelope, and two smaller business envelopes. the first person in line has a slip of paper that doesn't look much different from mine. the minute begin to accumulate and I am sure it is past 9:30. I hear voices from inside. jovial or discordant or hateful voices that are finding the rhythm of a workday, oblivious to the dying patrons dreaming away their packages. I keep reminding myself how much I dislike when people are waiting at the door of the bike shop. I keep reminding myself that these people probably hate going to work just as much as anyone else. 9:34. the door opens and I breathe a sigh of relief. a line of at least twenty has grown behind me, snaking out of the door and around the corner. a chubby fifty something year old woman is making a ruckus, whining about the postal service and pacing back and forth. it seems like they're always wearing floral print and driving minivans. four minutes. the first man is still standing at the counter waiting for his package to be retrieved. another four minutes. the second man is at the counter. I look at the line behind me. it's my turn. four minutes. as I'm leaving with my package I'm working through multiples of four, calculating how long each of these poor souls will waste at the post office on a beautiful saturday morning. it's the post office in the ghetto. boxes are a way of life. mail in a box. food from boxes. the occasional night spent sleeping in one. my last post office was delightful. college kids, always two people on duty. lightning service except at christmas time when everyone needed a passport and an audience. I'm taking this trip to a place whose only relevance to me is its obscurity. staying up late at night clicking links on wikipedia learning how to be pretentious, how to drop names of people and places at all of the right times, or to put your napkin on your lap when you eat dinner, even if it's at an all you can eat buffet. identifying the country of origin for various blends of coffee. love sick puppy dog eyes. fuck that. purely circumstantial. there was a girl at work today who looked like she had nearly burned to death. she couldn't speak, hear and it seemed that she could scarcely see. her body was covered in light pink skin that rolled off in iridescent white flakes. her eyes were hazy and covered in yellow mucus. I kept reminding myself that inside of that was a thinking thing just like me, that the disintegration of my form will be no less dramatic, it will only take a bit longer. I kept reminding myself not to stare and not to look away, to witness with that same severed likeness of ordinary experience. the west wind is kicking my window around. a series of hollow thuds. I open my package, dig through the packaging ensuring that I have not missed any of its contents. I love packages.