---
title: "second ride with the bionx"
date: "2008-10-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Tonight was my second ride on the bionx equipped big dummy. I'd been riding my other bikes in anticipation of a late month mile surge from my unwitting arch nemesis/psychological lover/disaster (etc). Also, I haven't exactly figured out how an electric assist cargo bike is going to fit into my routine. In any case, it was longtail ride night at the bike shop. The route was the same as a couple weeks ago, except backwards. The plan was to go through downtown Saint Paul and then stop somewhere in Mendota for drinks and food. Since I wanted to save the battery juice I opted to leave the motor off as long as it was convenient to do so. I expected that with the added weight and electromagnetic drag I'd have to turn it on periodically to keep up with everyone else. This was not the case. The bike was surprisingly easy to ride. I'm not even sure that it was slower than it was prior to the bionx installation. As we were crossing the Wabasha bridge Ryan and Dave got distracted and didn't follow Matt and I. We immediately stopped to wait for them, but it eventually became obvious that miscommunication had put them a couple of miles ahead of us. I turned the motor on and cruised to catch up with them. We stopped at a pretty swanky establishment with a patio that had a firepit, heatlamps, and a six hundred inch television showing the world series. Strangely, it also had some rather gruesome halloween decorations. I ordered a Guinness and a cheeseburger. Both were delicious. Incredibly delicious. It's been a long time since I've had such a good meal. I'm putting it on my special list of places, except I've already forgotten the name. A sixty-five year old white woman sitting at the firepit explained how she used to look like Tina Turner while two employees tried to figure out how to turn on the sound for the giant television. All that they could produce was pop hop. Oh well. The temperature was just warm enough to be completely comfortable. With the exception of my cateye light breaking early in the ride, everything was perfectly pleasant. I turned the assist up to level two on the way home and took it easy. It wasn't like a training ride, but it wasn't exactly like sitting in the car either. I got to enjoy the smells of late autumn and the silent spaces in between street lamps and passing automobiles. I ended with around twenty-six miles and over half of my battery life.