---
title: 'Transition'
date: "2012-11-16 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: ['Life', 'technology']
---

It's been an intense two three or four weeks. *Everything* is in transition. The weather has changed, my work has changed, my sister moved to Texas, some other stuff happened, I spent some money, my eyes hurt, my brain tingles, and finally...I put up a new website. It's mostly just going to be a Drupal playground that I can break without professional consequences. I've been stressed out about *pretty much all of it*. When I was a kid I neurotically played with computers. I learned a few things, but I never fully grasped or embraced the complex landscape. I quickly transitioned to doing things that offered more sensation, more tactile engagement. My brain wasn't well adpated to that level of intricacy. Simple and crude, it lurched forward. But things change. In the past months I've realized that I need to merge something that makes money with something that I love. Working in the bicycle industry is not perpetually rewarding, but at any moment it offers the potential for a serene/beautiful/engaging/fulfulling moment. Today I had the opportunity to watch the condensed transformation of a person from someone with only the vaguest notion that she might need a bicycle, to an individual riding away with a renewed sense of liberty and joy. My appreciation for being part of that moment must have been apparent, because it was with mutual enthusiasm that the connection swelled, foregoing the disinterested and disconnected behavior native to most retail interactions. Even now I can imagine the way in which the imagination begins to churn, and the mundane becomes extraordinary. But this is not always. This is sometimes. This is rare. This is a conquest of both circumstance and habit. However rare it may be, it is what drives me to continue to be a part of the bicycle industry. Yet, there is a money. It is a concept that I have relegated to the irrelevant realm of, "matters concerning adults." My concern is, perhaps, a reflection of newly forged adulthood. We've decided to rent out some rooms in our house. We haven't yet ballooned to fill the space, and it occurred while discussing "matters concerning adults", that we might easily have $10,000 a year in additional money from renters. The fact that this realization took such a long time to manifest is perhaps a reflection of my vigilantly retained childishness.