---
title: 'running, riding, and racing'
date: "2010-03-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I have started running for at least an hour every thursday. it's something that I secretly enjoy quite a bit, but also something that seems to give me a level of fitness that I cannot attain in any other way. even at my slow speeds it is something that demands more from the body and mind. rhythm. sense. an opportunity to relinquish the things that eat away at me. this morning I was having a very bad morning. it was not a morning made bad by any particular series of events or ideas. no, I simply felt shitty. "glib". whatever. I went for a run. it was difficult at first. I could not seem to find the right rhythm and the wrong songs kept coming on my ailing ipod shuffle. I was dressed completely wrong, with heavy baselayers and gloves that were making me sweat only thirty feet from my front door. I wanted to quit, turnaround, curl up on the couch and be nothing. instead I kept running, telling myself that I'd get around cedar lake and assess at that point. a strange thing happened: I started to feel good and when I reached the turn to start heading back towards home I didn't take it. instead I ran to lake of the isles via the greenway. I was feeling wonderful and even contemplated a second lap of the second lake. sense prevailed and I returned home. I felt refreshed. it was the first run of the spring where I felt like I had plenty of energy left at the end of the run.

after running I took a short break and then went for a bike ride. before bringing the aframe home from the bike shop I put a larger gear on it. 44x17. massive by my standards. I don't like dropping below 80rpm and prefer to pedal between 90-100rpm. I did a twenty-five mile loop that did not deviate much from my usual commute to work. boring, but I was really just in it for the exercise.

I have a new (tentative) plan for the spring: compete at almanzo and drop out of chequamegon 100. the things are mostly unrelated. after looking at the waiting list for the chequamegon 100 I feel guilty taking up a spot on the starting roster. I am not in the same class as most of the people either competing or hoping to compete. I don't have the skills or presence to make the event what it could be if the right people are there. I'm just a guy who would be trying to survive, and probably doing a pretty poor job of it. it seems like a selfish move to go and stumble my way towards the finish at a lackadaisical pace while someone who could be "animating the race" doesn't have the opportunity to participate. done. now, almanzo. I have decided that I will go there and I will do my best. I don't intend to compete in the sense of "I'm going to try to win or do well compared to other people!" no, I'm going to go there and compete with myself, put up the best time that I can while obeying laws and riding in a responsible manner...oh, and enjoying myself along the way. so, I will ride the tricross rather than the pugsley and I will try to get as prepared as possible in the next couple of months. that's all.