---
title: "I ate a bunch of pancakes for no reason and I hate pancakes: part I"
date: "2008-02-25 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Last night I woke up three times. This is unusual. During the times when I am most at ease with my life I wake up only in the morning at an appropriate time to start my day. At other times I wake up twice. The television has recently convinced me that I am suffering from various diseases including prostate cancer, erectile dysfunction, hypertension, arthritis and depression. At most I am suffering from one or two of these things, but the constant assertion that I could be suffering from any or all of them has my subconscious in a state of utter madness. When I run I am certain that at any moment my knee will simply give out. My teeth are genuinely a problem, and one of my unsettling dreams last night involved all of my teeth falling out. I have been told of the disconnect between teeth in dreams and teeth in reality, but as I awoke with real pain I was convinced that the two worlds and ideas had reconciled. To what end, I am not sure. The things that people forget to warn me about do not affect me at all. I rarely worry about bovine spongiform encephalopathy or meningitis, but even though I would never think of using meth, I worry about its ability to destroy my brain. I fear meat from China and mercury in my fish but not slipping in the bathtub and cracking my head open. It's funny, really. Even when I depart from normal behavior by opposing these fears I am still recognizing their position in contrast to what I am doing. 
 
It was a terrible morning for a run. The fog was extremely dense and the temperature hovered right near freezing. I couldn't decide if the moisture in the air was mist, freezing rain, or light snow. There was certainly a texture to it. I went about twenty feet before almost falling on my ass. The sidewalk was covered in an almost indiscernible layer of ice. At first glance it appeared only moist. I tiptoed forward, confident that a small amount of perseverance would allow me to through the anomalous ice to surer footing. After about a mile and three quarters I realized that there would be no end to the ice short of running in the middle of the road. Even the shoulders were covered in it. I abandoned my ten mile objective and started towards home. I walked the most treacherous sections, occasionally running a few feet as the conditions allowed. It was almost amusing. I was tired anyway.