---
title: "truth: part I"
date: "2008-11-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

The mind begins to expand exponentially when it accepts, without prejudice, those ideas that are not true. When I was younger, institutionalized, collectively educated, I spent the majority of my time parsing and discarding ideas based on my frail notions of truth. My finger erect and my expression gloating, I would pronounce the genius of something merely because I had thoroughly analyzed it and resolved that no part of it was conceivably false. Of course, moments (sometimes years) later I would hang my head and realize that it took only speaking the idea to realize that while no one part of the idea was flawed in its truth, the essence of the whole was indisputably untrue or inconceivable. It did not matter if I could dissect each element for its truth if the culmination was in an idea that even one person found inconceivable. For instance, after even a week's research one can prove a number of indisputable truths about the human brain that situate its function as strictly biological, easily manipulated by controllable chemicals. The prevalence of anti-depressants in our culture is the greatest evidence of the ability of science to dictate to the brain the color of its responses. Granted, certain factors will remain untouchable, but if chemicals can alter the response to a stimulus (in this case being accumulated life experience) then all one would need to do to complete the deceit would be to change the stimulus. In fact, with only slight variations in circumstance and brain chemistry the soul of a human being can be radically altered. Yet, even with scientific fact on the malleability of the human spirit, it is necessarily false that the human spirit is inconsistent. Perhaps I have made a poor example. The danger in attempting to articulate such concerns to a truth seeking being is that if they find truth in it then they've paradoxically accepted the contrary nature of truth, thereby nullifying the first half of the argument. However, if one stops seeking truth it is possible to accept that human beings are products, mere evidence of chemistry and circumstance, and that they also contain a strain of something immutable and consistent. The pursuit of truth merely makes a person mentally impotent, incapable of latching on to ideas for fear that their next idea will be in direct contrast to the idea they've just articulated. I developed this tendency in college. Initially I was full of ideas and language, capable of producing complex ideas, challenging stalwart academic notions of interpretation. Soon, however, I was assaulted with simultaneous notions of truth: certainly I felt repelled by an idea and drawn to another, but in another frame of mind (perhaps elicited by sitting on a red couch or the early setting of the sun or the placement of the library windows) I would produce a contradictory idea. Professors began to note that my papers were not selling an idea. Instead, they highlighted contradictory interpretations without making any attempt to convince the reader that he or she should be more or less inclined to either idea. Likewise, my creative writing suffered because I could only write from experiences that I had retained with a degree of clarity that could be called truthful. Wait. What have I written? This is monstrous and untrue. I give up (that's not true). 
 
I hear everything that my neighbors are doing and saying to each other. Until they stop making noise I will not be able to sleep. I will wait, furious at the intrusion, my utter helplessness in choosing when and how I will sleep. It is not their fault. I can hear small noises just as well as large ones. The walls are completely hollow. Not even a speck of dust. A blanket nothingness through which sound scurries, frightened and distorted. I hear their love and their boredom, and they do not realize how little there is shielding us from each other because there is seldom any sound at all in my bedroom. Keys clicking. Sometimes I drop something or run the vacuum cleaner into the wall. Occasionally I will laugh at something. My window does not open easily and I am sure they have heard that. But there are no human sounds to gauge. The intensity of a human voice is immediately discernible to a human ear. I can tell that their noises are not loud. However, what context would they have for the object that I dropped, or the force with which I contacted the wall with the vacuum cleaner. When they hear a noise instead of thinking about how thin and useless our walls are, they must think about how unusually loud the noise was. Who giggles at 100dB? Nonetheless, I am left bored and irritated, wasting away the late hours of the night as though waiting for a lover to return from a perilous journey. I play with my fingers and tackle ideas. I think about reading, but I don't want to settle in so much as to seem as if I've accepted the fact that I will not be able to sleep until they do. Instead, I will jot down a few thoughts. It has been some time since I have written anyway. The exercise will be therapeutic. A moment passes. Then more voices. More conversation. She claps and giggles. What the fuck? What are you doing? I refresh the weather data to see how much colder it is now than last time I refreshed it. Four degrees. The bathroom fan is on now. I hear the door close. Strange. 

It is morning. I woke up twice during the night as a consequence of the night's movements. I had a dream towards morning that I was on a family bicycle camping trip. We were still eight miles away from our destination. I couldn't understand the gps data. We turned one direction and immediately I knew it was wrong. 

There is snow on the ground. I didn't expect it to snow today and had set my heart on riding my road bike for one last weekend ride. It is not an option. Road biking season is done. Winter, though still a month away, is settling in hard. Yesterday's commute to work started at seven degrees fahrenheit. Mostly my equipment proved quite formidable with two exceptions: my backpack made it impossible to manage moisture, and the weak skin of my recently shaved face suffered in the wind. My hands and feet, the two areas where I usually struggle on cold weather rides of an hour or more, did fine. It was encouraging.