---
title: 'the weekend forecast'
date: "2010-01-21 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

listening to mingus and drinking a beer. this is how I fix things. restraint. conceptualized human restraint. in restraint(s). *taintress*. easily beguiled by music and the seeming affection of warmth. of the body. permeating coldly from the misshapen floor. moments ago I was ready for bed, but not quite. today was not done with me yet. I pulled the blankets towards my face. a piece of cookie/cracker/hardgrainflour sprung from its perch and landed in my left eye. I moved wildly about the bed like a thing dying. I do not like things in my eyes. I do not touch my eyes. I do not like other things touching my eyes. I would never intentionally or unintentionally put something in my eye. but I did. it did. for a time I tried to convince myself that it would not be a problem. that I had perhaps in a fit of good fortune removed the thing through the simple and childish act of rubbing my eye with my hand. I knew. as soon as my eyes rolled back in my head it would be lodged there for eternity. *no, of course not, the eye is full of some kind of acid that evaporates those things, right?* some days I feel like I have a third grade education. division is a mystery and I cannot fathom whether it is possible that my eye will eradicate bits of foreign material. I then thought, no, *that's not right...it'll just push it to the corner and I will wake up with a crusty yellow bit of cookie where it can be easily wiped away*... at this moment I remembered that an hour earlier I had put a beer in the freezer. I needed to get out of bed anyway. it would certainly explode during the night. I splashed water in my eye, making a conscious effort to surprise myself with the motion. my instinct will always be to close my eye when something is coming at it. it is only sensible. after thirty seconds the bit of cookie was in one hand and my recently opened beer in the other.

weekend: freezing rain? yeah, fuck that. it should not be forty degrees in january in minnesota. it should be - 10. maybe zero on a good day. yesterday when I went to the gym the area for lifting weights was littered with strong people admiring themselves. I was wearing my new glasses for the first time at the gym. after one set of squats they started to fog. nerd. normally mornings at the gym provide a fun, albeit tragic, opportunity to observe frail, old people stepping left and then right. small things. debilitating things. I sense now that I am getting older. one day I will be old and instead of needlessly heaving around barbells I will be stepping left and then right. exhausted I will collapse to my plastic chair and take pride in the most basic of human movements. then my imagination (now my imagination). then my brain. my innards will grow toxic and from me will spew the vitriol of one who cannot help but feel slighted.