---
title: "tracing shadows backwards: part I"
date: "2007-11-30 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

she falsely pantomimes the shadows of my limbs flailing wildly in a sexual frenzy. it begins at the shadow and works its way backwards to the body, finding it immodestly disconnected from the projection of its gesticulations on the wall. the bed is too small for either or both bodies and the unequal and arguably inequitable contribution of heat causes me to dislike her more than I had upon entering into our bargain. the moon is laid out in a canvas just beyond the raised blinds, washed out only slightly by the light of the voyeuristic desklamp, to which we are both indebted for this accursed moment. I watch the shadows dismount, but the sticky warmth of her body next to mine remains. in a heave she moves beyond the narrow bands of illumination and I am left to watch the blankets shift in gradations of black. I think of a worm burrowing into the earth and feel compelled to say something to her. neither compliment nor consolation occurs to me and I can think only to stir subtly until she is forced into the same awkwardness. but alas, she remains buried, and from the lack of intermittent breath on my naked chest I can tell that her back is towards me. I cough and wait. I cough again. I can tell from the pulsing heat of her body that she is not asleep. I pretend to choke, forcibly depriving myself of oxygen. my eyes feel ready to burst and still she lies there, an unfortunate shiftless mass. I sink back into the bed and remain still for a few moments thinking of what to do next. I lengthen and accentuate my breaths, feigning the early stages of sleep, waiting for just the perfect moment to flop my arm and half of my torso over her exposed back in mimicry of subconsciously realized affection. I shift my weight on to her such that she will not be able to sustain it for the duration of the night. she jostles and tries to shove my body back to its meager portion of the bed. I focus on tightening my abs so that it will not be apparent that she is fighting something more than my dead weight. my arms and shoulders remain limp, but my body immovable. after a few minutes she whispers, "are you awake?" I ignore her at first. on the third repetition of the question I utter my best confused groan, roll back to my side and ask what she said. she repeats the question even though the answer is now obvious. I explain that I had been dreaming and quickly invent a dream. link: "Here's a transportation solution: Reduce the need to drive" Excerpt: "What's missing in this bitter and prolonged fight is any serious attack on the demand side. If the need to drive can be reduced, then the need to pour concrete can be lessened and costs can be cut. If, in the next generation or two, metro residents adjust their lifestyles to minimize driving, then the transportation shortfall looks a bit less desperate." Full article.