---
title: "2008: part IV"
date: "2008-12-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Writing']
tags: 
---

I shift, my tongue painfully severed from the roof of my mouth. With a grimace I rip one from the other and rub the gritty surfaces against each other. I look in the mirror made vacant on anti-depressants and sprite. That moment I've just remembered, painfully wasted, replaced by insinuation that there might be another. The deafening, blinding repetition....repetition....inverse relation...to...source...happiness...another. Tasting...blood...semen...maniacal beats. A rhythm....silence...ebbs. Becoming a matter short circuited...vilely repeated...not being the recipient. 

...I used to be prettier, she mutters...younger...fucking trite. And as I shift, as I phase in and out of time it is true that transcendentalism takes on a new form not bound to plastic chairs on the deck...but I need something. because we don't need each other. I love the way that you say...SPITE. Resonates clearly in the slightest twinge of...I don't care. ...once you identified the precise rationale behind the fracturation of self into compartmentalized metaSLAVES bred of mistakes. Mistakifiction. A self induced drunken, anti-depressant haze through which I became embarrassed with my level of non-contained diversified fascination. ...untrue. I made believe. Nothing but a physical response being the product of externality. Momentarily, perhaps I was alone, but in those scientifically vacant walls there were ghosts haunting, churning, bleeding out a resonance of...there it is again. No, you said it last time. But you did not. I have this preconceived understanding derived from an ulterior projection of inverse forms resulting from the calibration of cognizance with one's general dilapidation at the hands of time. That's fucking amazing. You are thinking in the dictionary sense of the letter m without regard to your own fascination. Oh... 

...how wound up the pasts become...and if only...a letter isolated from any concrete word or idea, once changed, reflects a skewed context. irreverent, irrelevant, sublimely genius. It was separated from context by a divide no smaller than an insinuation of character made upon reproductionist language. article to corresponding noun, it is a case of being read and then conjoined as ephemeral plaything. I lent a book once to a girl as the man on the radio wept for his sorrowful life. She was the most ignorant creature I have ever met, having somehow escaped any mark imposed by circumstance upon creature. So finite was her scope, and so simultaneously precocious was her tongue that I made no attempt to understand or communicate except by that universal language of sexuality bred without any reverence for creation...she believed in forgiveness and eternal life, but left without a word. A voyeur, a pervert. So predictable, I loved my method...of her...a creature in space as hardly distinct from space...in that...separated forms...nothing...bond between the thing signified and its reproduction...the man on the radio has given it up. 

You loved me once. The letter v dips below a line on which all other characters begin and end. Yet, there are others. I dream. Honestly. 

You mean everything to me. Isn't that so? I invoke it based on empirical data...your brain...your genitals...your captured imagination...of produced evidence to dull sensation...Yes, absolutely. Do my eternally looping thoughts repulse you? Are you that simple-minded that I can change a few words, the spacing of others, insert a hyphen and you will think it...impossible. Look at me and deceive me in such a way as to exact the concept of the thing that I conceive. Therefore, I am principally the thing that defies the space in which I am forced to exist...it is a choice.................of space...patterns...the way that I divide the lines of my face into pieces and make it inhuman. The inflection of my silence...it is possible. 

**scary. sad. fucked up**

Last night I volunteered for the second time at the coop. I painstakingly organized the tea and then refilled the bulk coffee. It was fun, although I'm starting to feel like I spend as much time there as anywhere else. We've fit two and a half months worth of volunteer shifts into the span of two weeks. It's a good time for it anyway. A couple of days ago I was peeling labels off of a package at work and slipped, slicing into my finger about a quarter of an inch before pulling back and beginning to hiss and whine. It was hilarious timing, because it was exactly one day after receiving notice that my health insurance had been activated. Razor blades have been consistently a part of my job since I was sixteen years old, and I only remember one other time when I cut myself seriously enough to warrant a bandage. I surmised that I had been sloppy due to an increased comfort level with the risks involved with living. The a-train was kind enough to run to walgreens to procure fingertip bandages and antibiotic ointment. I put the box of bandages on the most conveniently dry surface in the bathroom: the top of the toilet. It immediately began to slide as I swatted at it, trying not to splatter blood on everything or defeat the thorough cleaning that I'd just given my wound. My efforts were futile. I looked at the sinking box with a sense of horror before reaching in with my uninjured hand and fishing them out. Fail. Fortunately I had removed one from the box before ruining the remainder. All was not lost. After growing weary of a week of riding through the snow on extraordinarily slow tires I went to the gym a few doors down from the bike shop and joined. It'll afford me a bit of variety in my indoor exercise. The trainer has already transcended the realm of regular boredom to the more impressive land of soul sucking boredom. Forty minutes of staring at the couch and wondering why a saddle that is generally comfortable turns into a taint-destroyer with only the slight modification of being attached to a bicycle that goes nowhere is about the extent of my mental endurance. And all of that perhaps only twice per week. Any more than that and my brains would certainly end up being unseemly ornamentation for the already unseemly walls. Today I rode to Minneapolis, hopped on the cedar lake trail, before continuing to the greenway. Even though it was daylight I couldn't help but think about all of the recent attacks along the trail and the apparent inadequacy of law enforcement in preventing them. It is such a wonderful resource and to think that people are being forced from it by violent hoodlums is truly sad. The attacks seemed to begin late in the summer and in recent weeks have reached a fever pitch. Although it was probably unrelated to the current group of attackers, the guy who bought my old xtracycle almost had it stolen over the summer near the Sabo bridge. Scary. Sad. Fucked up.
