---
title: 'false starts and anonymity'
date: "2005-09-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

this morning i dreamed of my apartment on fire. i rarely (to the point of often professing "never") dream of things exactly as they are, but it seems as though i’ve taken that as a challenge worth defying--my apartment looked exactly as it did when i went to sleep. i watched, terrified, as the things around me burned, knowing that i would soon be one of them, but entirely unwilling to leave through the easily accessible window. someone was waiting for me outside. i knew it and nothing about it seemed unreasonable even though i had no conscious idea of who was waiting for me or what they intended to do to me. i sense it was a man, a pompous and arrogant man, perhaps a part of me. i watched the things in my apartment as they, quite interestingly, burned at different speeds and intensities--some glowing intensely while others refused even a lick of flame. it was terrible. i woke up and deadbolted and chained my front door.

my two classes so far have been awful. i couldn’t get the book for the second class because the bookstore was out of it, and it seemed i was the only one, lending a dubious bit of inauthenticity to my story and heralding me even further as the unbelonger. there was an ugly boy sitting in front of me who fanned himself for the entire hour and a half. i couldn’t believe that his arm didn’t fall off. the room wasn’t at all warm. i was wearing pants and two shirts and was quite comfortable propped up against the wall. the professor made light of him and he ignored her. i almost envy his ability to be such a blatant point of idiocy without feeling the least bit embarrassed. my other class was going quite well until we broke into groups to discuss a shakespearian sonnet in light of the foucault article that we had read. i understood the article well enough, perhaps better than most, but could not for the life of me do anything with the sonnet. to make matters worse, i was paired with a complete idiot and we were within earshot of the professor, so our combined stupidity surely marked us as underachievers and dull thinkers. perhaps one of my other professors from the english department will beam about my sharp wit and comprehension, because ms. marcela certainly isn’t going to be doing so anytime soon. she does seem to appreciate my irreverent and grim sense of humour though. perhaps i will find my niche as class buffoon. or perhaps i will grow quiet with shame and lose even that merit.

i decided to come home before my evening class to refuel on coffee and dump some of my heavy books (most of which are already suffering some degree of ruination from slapping around on my sweaty back). i weighed my bag and it was a meager twenty-two pounds, but it certainly felt like more pushing eighty gear inches on my bicycle up a near ten percent grade. to make matters worse, the wind was horrible and traffic was inconsiderate (traffic seems to have a daily mood about it that has nothing at all to do with progress throughout the city). between the added weight and the wind i wobbled around idiotically, almost unable to keep myself upright.

now is normally about the time i’d be just getting ready for a nice midafternoon nap, so i must be very careful not to talk myself into falling asleep. i have an uncanny ability to justify sleeping at almost time of day regardless of the consequences. it really is amazing, and if only the logic that i often employ was not so tragically flawed i would find myself much more even tempered.

i’m back from my last class. polk managed to wax on about the syllabus for just over two hours. i couldn’t believe it. i was stunned. i marveled. i squirmed in my uncomfortable desk. $32,000 a year and they couldn’t even get me a comfortable chair to sit in. he asked me a question and i answered for something else. i don’t know if it was to complete my clean sweep of disgraceful beginnings to each of my classes or whether i simply wasn’t paying enough attention.