---
title: 'Running with other people'
date: '2013-11-10 17:36:54'
template: post.html
photo: 'http://dropbox.timlupfer.com.img.labori.us/c350x250/blog/vest2.jpg'
description: 'It was a difficult week of running, filled with chasing fast friends, testing new gear, and acclimating to the silent shift from autumn to pre-winter.'
---

- __Monday__: I was tired and my calves were uncharacteristically sore, but I couldn't say *NO* to Collin's invitation to run together. With winter looming, I've tried to make connections that will ease the boredom and bleakness of running alone in the cold, dark and snowy months ahead. This was my only run of the week where I didn't log at least one sub eight minute mile, and reflects what I *should* be doing going into the base building part of my Bryce and Superior build up. 5.3 miles.
- __Tuesday__&__Wednesday__: I took two consecutive days off, working out some tightness that had developed in my right calf after switching to my [Inov-8 F-lite 262s](http://www.inov-8.com/New/Global/Product-View-FLite-262-Red-Black.html) for the "off-season". I spent most of the summer running in Hokas, but after returning from the wedding I wanted to migrate to a shoe that would help me assess and improve my form. Rather than running, I biked a couple hours and spent time on the foam roller.
- __Thursday__: I wanted to test my recently purchased [Peter Bakwin Ultimate Direction adventure vest](http://ultimatedirection.com/p-599-pb-adventure-vest.aspx?category=hydration-packs), so I loaded it up with a down jacket, 40oz. of water, and a few other articles of clothing and went for an A.M. run. Finding the correct strap tension proved to be a bit challenging, and running with a pack is predictably less pleasant than running without one, but I soon found rhythm, comfort and familiarity with it that warrants at least a tentative thumbs up. I ran easy until the last mile, when I started hopscotching around college students on University. 4.7 miles.
- __Friday__: Committing on facebook to attend the Friday morning Mill City run helped me drag my tired self out of bed at 4:40am on Friday. though I somehow still managed to leave late. Coupled with an urgent stop at the Stone Arch port-a-potty, I ended up running fast before the start of the often briskly paced group run. Merrell was at the store demoing their zero drop shoes, so I impulsively decided to run in the [Bare Access 3](http://www.merrell.com/US/en-US/Product.mvc.aspx/33550M/82419/Mens/Barefoot-Run-Bare-Access-3). The shoes felt very similar to Altra, except with a much poorer fit for my feet--the toebox felt narrower and the heel, loose and floppy. I ran with Ken and Madeline, moving progressively faster each mile, culminating in a 7:05 on the final stretch to the store. I was tired. 10.7 miles
- __Saturday__: I did a rare afternoon run that involved some innocent trespassing around the U of M. This included dangerously navigating a construction fence that towered high above the river. In hindsight, I should have just turned around and gone back the way that I'd come, but I chose to bushwack and climb my way to freedom. The last couple miles unfortunately coincided with the end of a college football game, so I ran decidedly too fast trying to get ahead of the fleeing crowd. 7.5 miles
- __Sunday__: I've started attending the Sunday A.M. run from the Uptown Running Room. It always feels fast. The data suggests that it's usually slower than the Friday Mill City run, but I seem to always go into it tired. This week was no different. I felt pretty slow and sloppy, clumsily propelling myself forward with poor form and well behind the fast guy and five-finger-gym-short-guy. 6.7 miles