---
title: 'becoming organic'
date: "2010-12-07 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
tags: ['meeting michelle']
---

Unfinished snippets about US.  
  
**Day twenty-four. **Three weeks ago we met and everything began changing. I felt eminently *ready* for it and us to happen. The native state of MALE ambivalence instantly dissolved and left in its wake the marvelous, organic confluence of these beautiful things. You stated it well when you said, *I don't have to wake up each day and try to like you*. I feel the same. I like you. I love you. So many things have happened since I last wrote. We spent our days together, filling life with imagination and purpose. We began sharing friends and family. It snowed. We stood in the street, still and silent except for the large, wet flakes of snow that drifted softly to the ground. I etched that memory in my brain. Soft, slow, sweet *goodbye for now*. Waking up, having breakfast, sitting like we do in cafes and talking comfortably about anything, everything and nothing. Inhaling. Exhaling. My breathing slows and I struggle for words. It is a foggy euphoria, a newly bred disconnection from ORDINARY...  
  
**Day Six/Seven. **Two leaves joined together wrapped in a poem--that's what you gave me. It was one of the best gifts I've ever received. I didn't remember exactly how to find your house, so I allowed impulse to guide me along the route that we'd ridden on Day Five. I found it, almost just as I remembered it. I tried the upper doorbell, hoping that my associative thinking was sound. You came to the door. *Now you're in my house*. This time I brought my bike inside. I followed you upstairs to the kitchen where you were putting plastic on the windows. I met Tullio, the adorable dog who did/does not know that he was/is adorable. We went outside to make a snow fort, or something. Several revisions of the plan ended with the resolution that we would play a mutated version of bag toss with snowballs, boards, and grill accessories. Tullio ran frantically around the yard. You took an early lead. I began cheating, which also served as a convenient excuse to touch you. Coupled with honing my accuracy it led to victory. I considered it a win on many levels. You high-fived me for winning and I kept your hands, pulled you close, and kissed you. *Thank you. *That's what you said. It was adorable. Your roommate arrived home and we discussed going out for savory Japanese pancakes at Midori. *Yes.* Upstairs we had tea. You remembered that I liked honey and handed it to me without asking. The mug that you selected was lovely. There was a spot on the handle that fit my thumb perfectly and the texture was enchanting. I ran my fingers across it and felt the reverberations spread through my body. We talked about protagonists in Swedish films. The rest of the group arrived and we walked to the restaurant. You asked if I was hot blooded because I wasn't wearing a jacket. *Maybe*, although at that moment my teeth were chattering and I could scarcely construct a sentence. We sat down at a long table. There were seven people in our group. I sat at the end of the table...  
  
**Day twenty-nine.** Time has passed and our narrative has shifted from the thing that I privately toil over at my desk (with words) to the thing that *is life. *It has become organic. Counting back: sunday (wake up play come over later have wine talk about dinner bikes infrastructure neck massage fall asleep), saturday (wake up play scrabble scrabble sitting on my feet makefood PRACTICE fancy beer PRACTICE music stories), friday (wake up gotowork it SNOWS at the backdoor the temperature is such that the snow glitters), thursday (THE WATERPARK HA HA HA HA), wednesday (THE DINNERTHEATRE ha ha ha ha)...tomorrow *dark dark dark*...and so on.