---
title: 'Minnesota Ironman'
date: "2005-04-26 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

On Sunday I rode in the annual Minnesota Ironman. It’s a 105 mile bicycle ride through rural Minnesota, beginning and ending in Lakeville. I didn’t sleep more than two hours the night before and had a bit of a cold. Nate and I arrived around 8:30 and we departed around 9:00 when the rest of our four-man group showed up. I didn’t know the other two prior to the ride so I wasn’t sure what to expect of them. We made very good time on the first sixty miles until we entered the wind and the hills. Brad and I continued on together while Nate and Brad’s son, Eric, dropped off the rear and finished individually. My time was right around six hours give or take a few minutes. The Lycra clad goons didn’t seem to think much of getting passed by a kid wearing Dickies and a thrift shop polo shirt. Hopefully we’ll do a few more centuries this summer. I tried to eat my registration fee’s worth of cookies and candy. I think I might have gotten close.

Today I rode over to Hamline to iron out my registration status. On the way home I started getting pelted with hail. I’m trying to find someplace where I can live cheaply. Maybe a homeless shelter. I was supposed to start at UPS last night, but when I showed up there I was told that my background check still hasn’t gone through and I should come back next week. I’ll try to find a different job tomorrow. I’m already sick of that place. I’ve gone in four times to acquire a job packing boxes into a truck. Their standards seem to be excessively high, all things being equal. I ate dinner at Jessica’s. Everyone seemed in a rather sour mood and I’m allergic to her cat so I decided to go home early. Now I’m at home.