---
title: 'winter gear review pt1'
date: "2009-02-05 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---


I bought a lot of new gear for winter cycling this year. Since it is now February, and I'm sitting in front of my computer aglow in the warm sunlight and cool breeze, it's time for a random gear review.

- **Hotronic M3 footwarmers.** I have always struggled to keep my feet warm during the winter. I've tried many different configurations of products and ideologies, and none of them have proved very  reliable. This includes: Shimano winter shoes, Sidi winter shoes, too big sandals, and regular hiking  boots with platform pedals. The first three did not keep me warm, and the last one resulted in poor  pedaling technique, inefficiency, and lots of slipping off of my pedals. In short, they all sucked.  Hotronic footwarmers changed all of that. I was a bit skeptical at first. After turning them on I didn't  have the sensation of flames licking my feet like I imagined I would. In fact, when the weather wasn't so cold I wasn't even sure they were working, so one day I decided to leave one off and have the  other on a medium-well setting. I didn't even make it the fifteen miles to work before I was aware of a  vague numbness settling in one foot. This was on a thirty degree day with little wind. Since then my  faith has been unwavering. There are four settings and I've learned the appropriate temperature ranges  for each. Aside from foolishly not charging them, I have had zero problems with cold feet while using  these, even when temperatures have dipped well below zero. Depending on the setting the batteries last between three and fifteen hours. Most often I use setting two which lasts about eight hours--long  enough for even the longest of winter road rides.  
- **Lake MXZ302.** Even though the Hotronics functioned very well, I felt awkward wearing them out  socially. It's also a minor pain in the ass to connect and disconnect the batteries, so I decided that I  needed a second pair of shoes for casual situations. I'd heard good things about the Lakes from  everyone except for Matt, so I decided to give them a try. My first ride was in twenty degree weather with very little wind. After an hour my feet were starting to get cold right where the cleat connects to  the shoe. This seems to be the major weakness of all cycling shoes. Since then I've reserved them for rides of less than an hour and they've worked very well. However, if I didn't benefit from working at  a bike shop I'd feel pretty silly paying almost $300 for a pair of shoes to use for such short trips.  
- **Specialized therminal bib tights and therminal ex deflect tights.** I decided at the beginning of  winter that I would try to limit the use of regular clothing while cycling. During the winter my pants would last only a couple of months before the ass had a heart shaped wear mark that eventually  became riddled with holes. I bought two pairs of bib tights and a pair of windproof tights sans  chamois. The bib tights great and worked well into the twenties. The windproof tights worked well to  about zero degrees when combined with bib shorts, and below zero when combined with the  therminal bib tights. I was extremely happy with the setup until a week ago when I noticed that I'd  already worn a hole in one of the pairs of bib tights. I looked at the other tights and they are showing similar wear marks. They will probably make it to the end of the winter, but I certainly didn't save any  money or gain any longevity. I'm using a Specialized saddle and my ass is mostly normal, so I cannot  imagine that the problem is anything other than the durability of the tights.

to be continued...