---
title: "revolution at the grocery store: part I"
date: "2008-06-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

When I walked out of the grocery store there was another xtracycle on the rack. It belongs to one of our customers who uses it to tote around three or four kids. As I was loading my groceries a couple rolled up talking about it. "Yeah, I couldn't believe it, she had like four kids on there." I had six bags of groceries, two gallons of milk, and twelve rolls of toilet paper, so it took me a while to load them, even with wideloaders. It was my first trip using the official xtracycle brand wideloaders, and I was ecstatic to find out that my two bag per side capacity was now four bags per side. During the time that I was loading my bike two people came up to talk to me about my setup. The first one commented on the amount of effort that I was putting in to loading my groceries, while the second told me that he was watching me, trying to figure out how I was going to balance everything. It was amusing: three people all thinking that carrying things on a bike is some miraculous feat of the highly diligent or amazingly gifted. I tried to explain that it was really quite easy and that the extra three minutes loading my groceries didn't drastically cut into my day. However, communication in that situation is impossible. Diseased notions have a tendency to take root and can only be extracted through vigorous repetition of an antithesis. In this case, it made me feel happy inside to see this other xtracycle parked at the rack. In the past year and a half I know for a fact that the number of cargo bikes in Roseville has increased by at least ten. why? Because I've seen that many come through our shop. Many have gone to employees and friends, but they're becoming increasingly popular with a wide range of customers. It's a product strangely devoid a demographic. Moms, dads, college kids, nerds, jocks, old people, young people...it doesn't really matter. I like this.