---
title: 'return/words'
date: "2010-03-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I came around the corner. my glasses were covered with droplets of rain. my world moved with the droplets: a somber, oozing mess made up of nothing but color and sheen. no shapes. little distinction. from where I was the shapes had the helpless but fascinated outlines of human things perceiving death. I pushed my glasses down while speeding forward. there was a body in the road and around it circled six or seven unmoving people. above it, the 10th street bridge. below it... no one was doing anything. they were simply gathered in a circle perceiving the thing as it sprawled on the earth. except it wasn't sprawled. its arms were at its sides, it legs perfectly straight, and its face directly into the earth. unnatural. I hesitated for a moment, not because I did not want to be that close to death but because I did not want to be lured in by formality. I wanted to pass casually, observing, unblinking and continue through the night, nudging my glasses back on to my nose and once again becoming an element in a world of shapeless, rain smeared expression. in this color I could become nothing, fading in the unobtrusive way of the light at the end of the day. wide to the left, eyes unmoving, perhaps into the path of oncoming traffic. perhaps not. taking in the scene in all of its pretentious falsity, amused at the irony that would certainly ensue in my imagination.

I have been reading again. good. very good. it spurs my mind into thinking, just as my regular faculties recede into the depths of my inner conspiracy. ha ha. friendless. faceless. but suddenly not wordless. borrowing and rearranging, delighted in the sensuality of a world whose conception is solely mine. certainly the words are not my own, but the way that they manifest in my mind is entirely my own. when I am sleeping, dreaming, nightmaring, thought-fasting, the things that project on the inner wall of my mind are ultimately my own. just as language serves as the essential tool and cannot be claimed by an individual, so are these words. so are all words: collections and arrangements in a swirling vortex of nearly identical human experience. it has been raining on and off for the past two days.

returning to reality. morning. adjusting to new routines. this is one that I like. at my most productive I am left alone with these things that I have almost forgotten, these challenges, exercises of the mind that stimulate an entirely new daily fascination. I wonder if more interesting things are happening to me or if I have simply readied my faculties to perceive them.

the mice dig at night. during the day, the words. something changed. I am suspicious. protective. bleeding on my own when no one is looking. something is going on and it has little to do with me, except that I am doomed to see it happen.