---
title: "the coop: part II"
date: "2008-11-13 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I've had a mixed relationship with our local food cooperative. My experiences have been limited to buying coffee, one ill fated shopping trip, and a stop during a long run with joey during which I bought a banana and didn't experience my usual banana induced intestinal discomfort. During those trips I have been treated either indifferently or with a vague sense of dislike. One time the cashier went out of her way to explain in a very deliberate voice, as if she were speaking to a young child or a mentally handicapped adult, how to sign a credit card receipt. Granted, I walked in wearing a Bell Metro helmet, but when I got to the register I swear that I must have looked like an ordinary adult on an oh-shit- there-won't-be-coffee-in-the-morning-run. Did I look genuinely confused? Shrug. It's hard to say. Maybe I was nervous or expecting an unrealistic level of humanity simply because I was doing something socially conscious. In any case, it took some time for me to put those experiences behind me. Throughout my adult years I've lived with a high level of food guilt. In other aspects of my life I try so hard to lessen the negative impact that I have on myself and the environment around me. Even though I am a moderately healthy eater, I have struggled with the amount of packaging and the distant origins of the things that I eat. I look at the bags of recycling as I tote them to their designated areas and I feel ashamed. What if everyone produced this much shit? The fact that even a fraction of the people living on this earth produce and equal or great amount of trash is a huge risk to the continuance of civilized life. Thus, earlier in the week I made the decision to move most of my grocery shopping to the coop. This morning Ryan and I went there to join and sign up for our volunteer orientation. It was a good experience. The lady we talked to was very helpful, polite and enthusiastic. Even though a number of items were significantly more expensive, many had suitable lower cost alternatives that would yield a similar nutritional profile if only at the slight expense of a greater investment in preparation. Slow down. Think. etc. I will still have to allocate more money to grocery shopping, but I'm sure that I will feel much better about it. As an added bonus, I felt much more comfortable rolling up on a bicycle and utilizing reusable shopping bags and containers than I would have at a larger, suburban store. We've signed up for volunteer orientation on December 2nd. I'm looking forward to it.