---
title: "drunkdreaming"
date: "2008-11-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

the fact, though startling, was that I had imagined my key breaking not more than a week before it happened ...and from you it frees itself so awkwardly, like a confession made in the sanctum of a foreign human heart--strangled, hissing, blind-folded, drunkdreaming. I know...I say it not to mock you or give the illusion that I care, but because I do. sunshine, bereaved almost, telling me that "this this this..." and so on like the caricature of a place held generally without esteem or prejudice, a place whereon ideas of confluence and segregation become mindless battlegrounds for what might be happening inside of your head at this moment (for which there is no cure and of which you'll not admit anything)...and so on. and yet it still strikes me so strangely, so much with a delayed impact, that not more than a week ago I stood frozen in place, victim to the vividness of my broken key. amidst a generally wandering and shapeless mind I conceived it in perfect detail. it was the detail that then startled me. the temporary faces, shifting bodies, the absolute noise of my everyday mind stood still for a moment, cleansed itself of the perpetually mirrored duplicity to produce an accurate vision of the inconsequential future. ...and it was around this time, perhaps a few months later that I gave it the most serious consideration that I ever had. how serious? well, to begin with I did not want anyone to know. that is how I knew that it was troublesome. everyone in my situation has a delirious vision of how he might be extricated from the uncomfortable position, the faces to whom he will owe an infinitude of gratitude. (you saved me. I can imagine it (I can ignore it)) but in that moment I had no such vision. unlike past grievances, I did not want to be caught. I did not want to be seen. I did not want to be observed with pity. it was different. frightening. and so it was that I broke my key. snapped in half not in the lock, but in my pocket. the morning was chilly but not cold. I don't remember the sun. I never do except when I am stopped for the day, when it is the last effect upon my eyes before I fall into a deeply lucid slumber. I have not mentioned that I do not believe you. it should be obvious from my behavior, and I'm sure the sensation has not eluded you, but here is the simple truth: I do not believe you. there is a toxicity to your look that confesses what you hide behind those words of consolation, those maddening political half-jests. ha ha. secretive, seductive, isn't it? the language that we save for those special occasions when we want to assert our power, our dominance. but the truth of the matter is that the power is being not-interested, not-invested. look, casually--with maturity--and say, "ha ha, no thanks madam!"