---
title: "Three nights ago"
date: "2008-11-03 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I leaned my neck and head uncomfortably against hand and headboard, watching her undress. "I'm going to describe you," I told her absentmindedly. "You'll fail." My lips parted and I started to refute her, but I stopped short. It was true. I would fail. She had her back turned to me and the only light leaked from the half open bathroom door. The shadows danced in the valleys of her lower back. I wanted to imagine her pale skin without blemish or texture, but even the dim lighting revealed an inharmonious blend of imperfection and nothingness. "I will compare the fragility of your form in this lighting to the unyielding and hostile environment around you," I finally told her with a certain degree of self satisfaction. I had utilized language that hinted at an idea so immensely complex that it could not be explained except with convoluted language. There was an ornate mirror on the wall just to the right of her. Because of its ornamental shape and small viewing area I could see only a dimple form in her cheek as her lips curled and she exhaled through her nose. "You are so subordinate to the ideas of other people that, since we are alone, you could not even decide whether I am ugly or beautiful." Again, my tongue somersaulted in my mouth as I instinctively found the idea repellent. Before I could stammer my protest she continued, "If you are uncertain whether you are describing something ugly or beautiful, how will you describe it? Will you speak to some unaffectionate and biological truth? No. It is impossible, because if you do that all you will say is that a naked human creature is standing with its back turned to you and that will be the end of it. You will not be able to speak about me from the perspective of a being with whom everything has been shared for the edification of a psychological disease, a contamination of the mind." I was repulsed and jerked my body to an upright position, knocking over a beer bottle that sat on the nightstand. The remaining droplets diffused into the darkness of the carpeting. "Physical intimacy is not a disease." "But then why is it that you sit there still assessing how you feel about me? You try to decide finally whether you like my face and what prejudices might be making me more or less beautiful than I am. Finally, you wonder what I will look like when I am old, fat, or diseased." Perhaps out of spite or irritation I began to think in the way in which she accused me. Indeed, our entire fate, however insignificant, rested on a decision of whether or not I trusted her not to become repulsive to me, and further, whether I felt secure enough in myself to imagine that I would not become repulsive to her. "You want to describe me in order to quantify my beauty, but it cannot be done because your opinion cannot be formed without someone else telling you to form it. Do you really believe that you describe me without prejudice and learn anything from it?" It was true. I could not. I grew increasingly lost in my thoughts and didn't notice that she now slept next to me, body on its side and her left arm resting on my chest and shoulder. I studied her face as she slept. It struck me as particularly odd how a face with its eyes opened looked so different from a face with its eyes closed. I trusted her now. Because I could study her unobserved I learned that there was nothing to fear in her face. Its features were quite striking. I wondered what would happen when she awoke and I once again became terrified of her eyes. I pressed my teeth gently on her exposed earlobe, whispered that I loved her, and went to sleep. 
 
### Yesterday morning 

I woke up. My hands trembled as I grasped helplessly at the clock, thumb and forefinger hooked like pincers. Fine motions were difficult for me. I flushed with shame at the thought of an undiagnosed neurological disorder. Not quite finished dreaming I lost myself to the reverie of the hypnotic sensation, the aroma of human bodies huddled together for warmth. I became vacant and dimwitted, hoping that nothing would break the reverie. The fit came on suddenly. Once I was in line at the bank and the woman in front of me had on the foulest smelling perfume. As soon as she was gone I found myself in a trance. The sensations of the perfume had worked their way inside of my mind and elicited the same primitive response as someone not immediately repulsed by it. I was embarrassed at the simplicity of it. "Now we are awake," she murmured. "Yes, now we are awake," I said with a slight degree of irritation at my trance having been broken. She rolled over in the sheets until she was completely wound up in them. A chill spread over me. It was characteristic of her to vacillate wildly between a state of near unconsciousness and lucid mental acuity, so I was not surprised when she suddenly began talking as if she'd been preparing for hours. "I was at the home of an acquaintance with whom I'd not spoken in years. `Miele,' I began, `tell me what it is about our friendship that is so distasteful.' I hadn't realized at the time that I had always called him by his surname, but it struck me at that moment as peculiar. I cannot recall his answer because I did not listen to it. I was ensnared in the notion that I hated everyone, that it was simply a matter of hapless perseverance that I even indulged these relationships. I mean, if we were of any consequence to one another how is it that after an extended separation there could be absolutely nothing to say? I followed Miele to the kitchen where we sat down mechanically as if we'd been doing it together for years. As we ate dinner neither of us spoke. In my boredom I observed for the first time that my reflection on one side of the spoon was entirely opposite of my reflection on the other side of the spoon. My face was upside-down! I laughed. Miele gave a start and glared at me as he would an unwelcome intruder to whom circumstances of allegiance forbade him to eject. I continued to flip the spoon in my hand, entirely amused with the almost comical duplicity that so perfectly captured my essence." "So you loved everyone as well?" "Yes, but I could not realize it until I tried to describe beauty in something horrific. It is no different than your inability to discern whether I am beautiful or ugly. As soon as you attempt to describe beauty you realize that you are instead beautifully describing ugliness. This perplexity makes you vengeful, as if you were tricked by a false essence." Moments passed in near silence, with only the sounds of bodies shifting as the midmorning light streamed through the cracks in the blinds. "We've slept very late." "Yes, we've slept very late." "I would like to eat pancakes for breakfast." She smiled. It was the first time that I'd seen her smile, except in her sleep.