---
title: "the three most overplayed songs, a new year, and computer parts"
date: "2008-01-08 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

The "my three songs" for the day are the three most overplayed songs of the year: twenty-seven Jennifers, that stupid MIA song and the completely loathsome whistling song. Kudos to the listener who suggested it. 

I've had a good start to my year. I've been running more, riding more, lifting with intensity, and trying not to indulge in the ever present winter temptation to be simply sleepy. The warm weather has certainly aided in my reformation, but I like to think that to some degree it is a product of a strengthened resolve. In any case, I've been fortifying my supply of winter running accessories with water resistant trail running shoes and Yaktrax--a mishmash of coils and rubber that allow traction on packed snow and ice. I had a couple opportunities to use them before the warm weather struck and I was impressed with their ability to maintain traction on some pretty awful surfaces. The only downside seems to be that they're rather unpleasant on bare pavement. During one of my runs I took them off and put them back on a number of times as my opinion of the conditions changed. It was not necessarily the most convenient approach, but it was better than having to cancel my run due to the weather. 

On a completely unrelated subject, I have been trying out a new version of Linux on my laptop. Many years ago I was an avid user of Slackware Linux--a minimalist distribution that held its heart very close to Unix principals. This resulted in an operating system that was well suited to server use. It was secure and stable with very few frills. Package management scarcely existed and most programs were compiled with the user identifying and acquiring appropriate development libraries. If hardware wasn't supported it simply didn't work. If hardware was supported the user more often than not had to make it work by compiling it into the kernel. The X server required endless and seemingly obscure information about your videocard. Eventually it would work exactly how I wanted, but I had to work to get there. Therein was its mystique. Since then I have used Fedora and Gentoo in a server environment. I noticed some differences from early Slackware, but since my interaction occurred primarily via ssh it didn't occur to me the massive strides that Linux has been making as a viable desktop alternative. Putting Ubuntu on my laptop has changed my perception. Applications that were poorly developed and buggy are now elegant and stable, once experimental kernel drivers are now swapped in and out seamlessly as modules, devices without native drivers now run flawlessly with windows drivers. It's really quite amazing. The mystique is gone, but what is left is certainly worth the slight blow to my ego. 

The same unfortunately cannot be said for Dell. Upon arrival of our server the following items had to be replaced: the motherboard, the power supply, and the control panel. Just yesterday, less than a year after its purchase, the network card slowed to a crawl and finally died. Our laser printer has already been replaced once on warranty and has never printed straight. My laptop has thankfully been reliable, but given my experiences with Dell, I hesitate in prayer each time I press the power button. Perhaps the drop in the price of technology has come with a corresponding drop in quality, and it is not Dell's fault alone. Many of my friends have been purchasing Macs. It will be interesting to see if paying twice the price for equivalent technology yields increased longevity, or only longing looks at the coffee shop. My next computer will surely be built from bamboo and circuitboard.