---
title: "a paper I started writing on Doctor Zhivago and never finished: part I"
date: "2007-10-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Writing
tags: 
---

Yurii Andreievich Zhivago was "drawn, as irresistibly as water funneling downward, to dream, to think, to work out new forms, to create beauty"­this, more than anything else, should be remembered about Doctor Zhivago (Pasternak 78). Lost in the midst of a revolution that catered not to the "idealized intellectuals", but instead to the working class, it is not difficult to imagine a world that would become suddenly and alarmingly hostile to this doctor, philosopher, and poet (136). This logic, however, fails to take into account the openness with which Yura measured the revolution both in its theory and practice. Early in his life Yura resolved that "art was no more a vocation than innate cheerfulness or melancholy was a profession" and that he ought to do something "socially useful" (57). When revolution swept through Moscow and many of his comrades abandoned their posts at the hospital, Yura continued working, ready to sacrifice himself for the success of the revolution. Yet, the single minded idealism of the movement, taken to its extreme and logical conclusion, did not allow for reconciliation under any terms. People committed to absolute notions, whether in the form of beauty or political dogma. There was no room for mediation or moderation, and the one dimensional brand of revolutionary thought became a stratifying toxin that poisoned the blood of the people. The inevitable dissolution of the self into communal madness sustained itself on the concept of individual ideas taken to extravagant but logical extremes. 

However, idealism was not solely an arbiter of mechanistic doom. Yurii Andreievich, even in his tempered and well considered moderation, occasioned unparalleled suffering in both his own life and the lives of the people around him. Yet, there was something dignified, organic and life affirming about the sincerity with which he felt and acted. Yura succumbed to Nikolai Nilolaievich's vision that there were "two basic ideals of modern man­--without them he [was] unthinkable­the idea of free personality and the idea of life as sacrifice" (13). The latter of the two ideals was no stranger to zealots like Pogorevshikh, the deaf mute, who claimed that society needed to be completely destroyed in order to bring about the broad creative plan of socialism. At the time of their interaction he argued that society had "not yet disintegrated sufficiently", and that the observable suffering and disorder was natural (139). Pogorevshikh's failure was that he did not recognize the former ideal, reducing the suffering masses to only a single entity devoid of any free personality. Ideas either collided or congealed, and Yura's vision of mother Russia, whom he loved tenderly, did not meet entirely with either camp.
