---
title: 'more words, tim.'
date: "2012-01-21 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
---

after ruminating, head scratching, and finally deciding not to traverse the snowy landscape in search of waterslides, I found myself with the majority of a saturday just for *me* and my *psychic list of tasks.* this included the obvious things like: maneuver for access to the laundry machine, do the dishes, make the bed, sweep the floor, vacuum the rugs, take a shower, etc. once completed, I was able to delve into more interesting things like: sew and make words (now I can do while addressing the other!). I've spent the last few hours fixing things. so far I have revived the following: a glove, two smartwool baselayers, two socks, and a pair of underwear (still in progress). lately I have been uncharacteristically obsessed with saving money and using the things that I have to their full potential, so utilizing my amateur sewing skills to make unusable clothing once again usable elicits immense satisfaction. in December I finally got rid of my TCF bank account. after suffering at the hands of their ineptitude and malice, I finally confronted the minor inconvenience of moving my money from one place to another. one of the things that TCF could never fix was my online banking access. without wasting a good deal of time recounting the many ways in which I have tried to rectify the problem, I will summarize by saying: they initially entered my social security number wrong and it led to a series of missteps that not only failed to rectify the problem, but led to a variety of other unpleasant surprises. anyway, I couldn't look at my money on a computer while un-strategically willing the number to be bigger. I did not realize until changing banks how important it was to my personal growth to be able to gleefully click on my various accounts, transferring money back and forth just to see the numbers change. I love numbers and statistics. since deciding not to track my cycling numbers in 2012, I have noticed a lack of desire to put in those few extra miles at the end of a ride. I have a number of running goals for this year, and I didn't want the pursuit of big cycling numbers to get in the way of my ability to train for other activities. so, the point: I find numbers motivating. I love the act of collecting, comparing and utilizing them. having a savings account that I scrutinize on a daily basis is turning me into a *thrifty* and perhaps even *savvy* person. I like it. it's been a long time since I've written anything, so I will stop now and call it a success. more words, tim. more words.