---
title: 'visual degradation'
date: "2009-12-24 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

empty house. breaking necks. being things. look outside. peer eyes for peer ev(a|o)l. purely anatomical. word parsing. skip dancing. chain reaction reactionary fucking off in stride. quietude. schools of indifference. metabeical beinghood. blissfully animated while rephrasing sincerest apologies. appropriate response to outwardly harsh climatic deregulation and the pressing sensation of cold morning. warming up for head bashing. hello, dear, it's the winter and when I step from inside the house to outside the house and back inside it is all very different. the boundaries are distinct. defined by a change in temperature. a change in sensation. a change in presentation. I begin to perspire with excitement, anticipation, approximation of the reaching of fruition of a thing that I didn't even know existed. inside lovers, quenched by quiet hand-holding, relieved by the alteration of character from inside to outside. blending, deliberate creature shuffle- marching up and down the aisles of the grocery store as if on tether. breathing oxygen and blurring vision. it's the fluorescent lighting, I tell myself. it's just the lighting. but it's not. it's not. fuckkfjjjfjkkj.....no longer able to discern the fine edges of things, the balance of object and insinuation. shuffling feet as my socks slouch in my boots and I become slowly hapless. in the aisles of nowhereland picking out my cheese from finely measured intoxicating grades. best. worst. middle. plankful. dickbrain. whatever. pockets. opal cries. she cries. opal stomps. the righteous opalescence of opal as she combusts and becomes a thing lodged in the sky alongside the sun. inside/outside. now alone but contextually altered to be alongside the missing part of me. somehow lost, contemplating sleep at 20:19 because of this vacancy. !!