---
title: "return to duluth: part III"
date: "2008-06-24 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

There was a girl at the starting line with the most beautiful eyes I have ever seen. I thought about tapping her on the shoulder and telling her that I would be thinking about her eyes for at least the first hour of the race. It seemed weird and creepy, even in my mind, so I held my silence. Start over. My alarm woke me at 4:45am. I'd slept fairly well and I knew that I had a BLUE MAC HINE waiting for me in the refrigerator. I wanted to reset my alarm and try again, but I hadn't left that much time. My things were strategically arranged and my calories very precisely measured. Two and one half bagels, one with peanut butter, the aforementioned blue machine, a bottle of gatorade, and a pack of POWERGEL GEL BLASTS. I swallowed the bagels in disgust. 5am is not a time when I am particularly excited by the thought of consuming copious amounts of bread. By 5:45am I was sitting on a school bus trying to identify the sequence of events that had me sitting at the back of a bus in my brand new running shoes. Shortly after breakfast on Friday morning I decided that I would buy new gear at the expo and use it the following day at the marathon. I'd left everything at home. I was calm and the bus ride was immensely more enjoyable than the one that took me to the starting line for milwaukee. We were the first people on the bus and instead of sharing a seat with two other people, I had my own. This gave me time to think. 

The crowd eased forward and I went from saunter to shuffle a few times before crossing the starting line over five minutes after the race had started, going from that last moment of resistance to the awkward first strides of not having done this in a while. The sun was out and the 7:30am temperature was about perfect. The first water stop was three miles into the race. I was thinking small. It was my first goal. By that point I would have a general sense of my body and equipment. Just before the stop I could feel a hot spot developing on the outside of my right foot. Along with new shoes, I was wearing "Ultralight" socks that I purchased before I fully understood the rigors of long distance running. I feared the combination might prove lethal. I stopped shortly after the water station to tighten my laces. Within moments Joey went by me, asking if I was alright. "Yeah, new shoes..." I asked him if he knew how fast he was running and continued on my way. My strategy was for a brisk seventeen miles so that I would have a nice cushion going into the last ten or so miles, for which I was completely undertrained. The almost-too-tight lacing made the next two miles very uncomfortable. My foot tingled. "It'll get better...it'll get better...it's how these things go," I mumbled to myself. As I continued I thought at each water stop of where I would have been on my last training run. I'm on Summit. I'm crossing Lexington. I'm at Ramsey...and so on. After an hour of running I started looking forward to reaching double digit miles. 

I've heard other people talk about how they draw off of the crowds at marathons. I can appreciate this. My parents were volunteering at mile twenty-five and I got a huge mental lift from getting to see them so close to the finish. Still, I tend to draw off of other runners more than the crowd. Around mile ten I saw two girls running with t-shirts that said something like, "if my mom can beat cancer, then I can run 26.2 miles." Logically, it's perhaps nothing more than a painfully earned talisman, but the abundance of inspiration is so moving. Everyone has their story, their reason for running so far and suffering so much. Only a few people wrote it on their shirt, but it could be seen on the faces all around me. 

I crossed the half marathon point a minute ahead of what I'd projected at the beginning of the race. Everything was going according to plan, except that I was starting to get hungry. I could tell that the Ultima was either highly diluted or didn't contain any sugar in the first place. I needed calories. For the next two miles I scanned the sides of the road looking for people passing out snacks. Mile fifteen I heard a woman yell, "twizzlers!" Even though she was behind me I decided to run back to get some. They're about my favorite candy and a nice blend of simple and complex carbohydrates. Once I had a handful I knew that I'd be able to finish. There were definitely more people handing out food than at Milwaukee, but then again, very few people were even aware that a marathon was happening in Milwaukee. It's a big deal in Duluth. Even the toy store was offering 26% off. A gimmick? Sure, but the acknowledgment was still flattering in some bizarre way. 

The next two mental goals I had in mind were: over three hours of running and water stations at every mile. Starting at mile nineteen I walked from the start of the water area to the end. Approaching the final miles as an unpleasant series of 0.9 mile runs was much easier than thinking about another full hour and then some of running. Looking at my gps data, mile twenty was my worst mile. The miles kept ticking off and I started thinking about trying to break four and a half hours. I knew that it would be difficult, and it wasn't really that important to me, but since I had already ensured that I would not only finish but beat my previous best time, I needed the motivation. For the last few miles I ran near a guy who chugged a beer each time it was offered. He must have been in his fifties and didn't look very fit. I overheard him talking to a girl about it being his thirtieth marathon in a couple years. I was thoroughly impressed. In the end I think I beat him, but just barely. As I approached my family at mile twenty-five I planned on dousing my sister with a glass of water. Unfortunately she pulled out her camera to take a picture. I was impressed with the ability of my fatigued brain to identify that throwing water on a camera would have been a poor decision. Kudos, brain, kudos. I expected a boost of energy for the last 1.2 miles like I had experienced at milwaukee, but it wasn't there. I needed to run fast over that distance to break four and a half hours and it was almost immediately apparent that it wasn't going to happen. It didn't matter though­I finished. In circumstances that rivaled the difficulty of my first marathon, I finished. 

I felt certain going into this marathon that I wouldn't run another one for a very long time. The last six weeks of training are loathsome. Days are lost to "getting ready for a run", "running a run", and "recovering from a run". As much as I hate this, I love the event. I love running marathons. I can't wait until next year.