---
title: 'plainly stated'
date: "2009-12-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

it is evening, nearly night. cold. winter. I just got home from work. clementine is here. today she does not recognize me. it does not mean anything to her when I walk through the front door. I stand there, grappling with a sinking sensation as I take off my boots. I know that she is home. once she might have stood near the door waiting for me, or at least her coincidental proximity to the door convinced me of it. not today. not lately. she does not laugh when I try to play with her anymore. when I walk out of the bathroom after showering she runs from the room crying, mommma... it is crushing. I try to be entertaining or mysterious, but eventually her unease in my presence convinces me to leave her alone. something happened. maybe it is simply that she is beginning to develop the very adult sentiment of preference. I try to rationalize: I work a lot, she is with her father often, she has been gone a lot for the holidays. it doesn't help. it doesn't explain why I fail to elicit excitement or affection, or even worse, why what she feels is worse than indifference. I sit at the computer eating my dinner. I read on the internet sometimes. I try to learn what works for other people in my situation. I try to learn things about clementine. she likes containers and necklaces. I gave her my participant medals from two marathons and try to remember to clean out the yogurt containers for her kitchen. I pay attention to her body language and try to understand when I can and cannot provide what she needs. I do not act afraid because I am not afraid. I understand. what I provide for her doesn't coincide with what I'd like her to provide for me. I dream about her often, wishing a small part of her belonged to me. I am not jealous because she has a father and a mother, nor am I unfulfilled because I want children of my own and gush over the idea like an idiot. I have never wanted that or been inclined to interact more affectionately than to avoid stepping on children when they are running around near my feet. it is different with her. I am over-invested. I even love her. I sometimes stop myself, selfishly, because I feel my increasing vulnerability pressing against her disinterest or dislike. she will hurt me and it will mean nothing to her. perhaps she will not even be aware of it. she is a child. it is not her place yet to feel guilt. her face betrays only honesty. when she is afraid of me her face reflects it. adult faces rarely reflect anything definitively. I prefer to believe that I am skilled at reading adult faces, even when their words run contrary to their secret expression. what do you mean? oh god, that malicious, arrogant smile that says, you will never prove it. it makes me sick. as disheartened as I was to see her turn away from me in fear and disgust, the purity of it was enchanting. words are coming slowly. choppily. words. in need. of need. soon I will go to bed and I will feel alone. I will wake up in the morning and the feeling will have temporarily left me. I will methodically prepare for work. it will be a quiet day at work and I will have moments to think. I might read these words and think about all of the people who secretly read them. I might even share a secret expression with one of those people. I will feel naked because in a world, my world of pretense and linguistic artifice, this is uncharacteristically revealing and plainly stated.