---
title: "overheard in line at the grocery store: part I"
date: "2008-05-03 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I was in line at the grocery store and overheard a man muttering to himself. This is what he said (I left spaces where I could not understand him): 

> my response, of only vague clarity, has been to focus on observations rather than ideas--a thing which I am compelled to do during the most stagnant periods of my life. so check this: how clever she appeared in her own reflection feigning such a position, looking up with devil eyes and thinking, "even if he knows, he'll have to prove it either out of curiosity or an aversion to public guilt." last night I dreamt intermittently of ______, my own devil eyes prying open the front door, waiting with uneasy trepidation to be accused. and so I will be walking, perhaps speaking casually to an acquaintance when a stranger, grin strangled and subdued but peeking through girlishly, will point his or her finger at me and declare my horribleness. and I will explain to the stranger that the ruse was up long ago. I knew all along, and of course I will be right, but when asked of my knowledge I will say only: it was so obvious. this is not enough. and how did it become so adversarial? how like-minded we once seemed, both praying for revolution that would leave us living in tribes of learned, though practical and compassionate axe wielders. in the aftermath of the world's great madness, sucking from oblivion those precious clear thoughts conveyed of the inexpressible. how lovely! how very lovely! and yet somehow it was infrequency--hah! infrequency amidst a revolution!­ that facilitated our demise. and if we could not glance without any inkling of affection, if we could not sever head from limb for something better and more acutely felt, how on earth were we to weather a revolution? were we not then just "people" rather than ideas? observe: there was a girl with black hair, blue eyes and a deep voice. her name was a-. in a short amount of time I grew insane over her. so insane, in fact, that I went out of my way to make her acquaintance, which quickly budded into friendship. however, soon her personhood interfered with my idea of her personhood and both became pale impressions of what they once were. my demand on her became such that it drained the very essence of everything that she had been prior to our meeting. we danced sickly and madly around it, all of the time, both wanting this thing­though seemingly casual, inarticulate, a mere exchange of surfaces--to end as quickly as it had started. it soon ended. and here we've been, both wanting this thing to end for several years--you, the hero and ___, the villain--but somehow it gets dragged out in this skeletal dance, this inefficient explosion of human faculties. and if any of it mattered it doesn't matter, because it was only the nurturing and restoration of the primitive ideas of self that we were after. and how fortified you must be now! aglow with the decadence of your own self estimation, the narrative of your bescorned goodness and perfectitude. while I now have the opportunity to string together words in the ______ form of a love letter to myself. with what pity the world ought to look on each of us!