---
title: 'dot.'
date: "2010-05-11 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

it is raining. today. yesterday. probably tomorrow. the proximity of people changes even as their distance from me does not. this time, I am sure of it. this house has not been fixed. things are where they have been and the wild, vacant spaces looming large between groups of objects remains unchanged. it is as if the objects have huddled together in a show of non-corporeal sympathy, blending their absolute characteristics with the fragility and malleability of the human being. television. fiddling. minor cleaning. I do not clean here like I have in other places. instead I perform only the non-negotiable tasks: dishes, laundry, acquisition of food. twenty days. under three weeks. I tick off the time not because of the life I have lived here, but rather because of the incompatibility between the length of my stay and my vitality. there is nothing. nothing stirs. the mouse now is surely dead. last standing companion tiptoeing as I stir to bad dreams and the need to take a piss. I do not like coming here. the streets seem darker and the way perpetually muddled. I have to work it through in my mind which streets return here. even though they are the same streets that I have been using for the past year, they are no longer obvious. just like any other dark, desolate street where life regularly makes its end, they are anonymous. lost is my sense of certainty and purpose. I attempt to rekindle friendships and find that they are gone, or exist only as phantom shadows. the arrogant part of me thinks, they will always be there. but the reality is very different. they were only temporary bonds that were in need of unceasing reaffirmation. they are no more complex than the houseplant I periodically forget to water...except that the houseplant is far more resilient. I expect it to mean more to them. I expect my return to be heralded as something magnificent, but alas, it has already faded from their unconscious. in the conscious, of course, it is carried out as it so often is: two now-near-strangers playing tic-tac-toe with their lives and makebelieving that aligning these parallel memories has some kind of significance. but it/they/I have faded. this is why people make families and believe in god. now I am sharing more, and the irony is that my compulsion to share less was driven by the inevitability that one day things would change and I would be in this very situation. life is heinous. then I will move, begin the slow accumulation of things to excite my senses. the smell of a toasted bagel. the warmth of turning up the heat and going back to sleep for another hour. but it will fade, and I will watch myself growing older. the creases will etch themselves permanently into my face and changes in my expression will become increasingly infrequent. becoming stone. forgetting how to feel. losing words. pictures. imagination. and finally the body.