---
title: 'almanzo weekend #3'
date: "2010-05-16 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

After eating breakfast at Denny's we pulled in to the spring valley high school with about thirty minutes to kill before the start. The weather was phenomenal. It was a bit cold stripping down to shorts and a jersey, but after a couple laps of the parking lot I was quite comfortable. There was ample sunshine and very little wind. It seemed almost too good to be true. I knew that it would be a dangerous year for me at Almanzo. I went into the race with fitness good enough to make me overconfident, but not good enough to compete for anything more impressive than "upper third". I told myself I would just ride as hard as I could and make the challenge purely a personal one, but that's not exactly how it works when you're weighing decisions like, "do I stay at the back of this group that's going uncomfortably fast or do I work 95% as hard to go 75% as fast on my own?" Before the race I sought out some of the people I knew would be there. I lined up at the start with skibby. I intended to coax alex into starting with us also, but last track of him at some point. We were very close to the front. Skibby is a seasoned bicycle racer, so I was hoping that if I could hang with him I could find my way into an organized group and get as far as I could before having to fall off and ride on my own. The race started. It was mind blowing. We were flying at 20-25mph down soft gravel roads. The group was packed tight and included at least fifty people, with hundreds more spread out behind. I knew that we were going at a speed that I wouldn't be able to sustain, but it was impossible to convince myself to just fall back. Skibby had moved up a few spots and I could no longer see him, focusing all of my energy on keeping my bike upright and not losing the wheel in front of me. A couple miles out of town we started down a sketchy descent. I couldn't believe how fast people were going. I was going 35mph and losing ground on the people in front of me. As we hit a sharp corner I heard, then saw, chaos in front of me. A rider was down on the left side of the road. Another rider plowed into him going probably 25-30mph, flying many feet into the air before hitting the ground. I could tell that there were riders down on the right side of the road too. I avoided hitting any of them, thought about stopping, but decided that that would probably just cause more crashes and that I wouldn't be able to do anything anyway (my phone had no service and I have no skills to fix broken people). At the bottom of the hill the remnant grouped back together and we hammered for another eight miles or so until hitting the first big uphill. At this point I had to concede that I could not hang with the fast people and fall back. I could have made it to the top with them, but it was becoming increasingly apparent that averaging over 19mph was not sustainable. I was ready to start riding my own pace when I met up with a guy in orange who was very friendly. He had stopped at the crash because he knew one of the riders and was trying to work his way towards the front. We traded pulls for a while until we met up with another group of three. I rode primarily at the back of this group until we caught up to another group and hit a steep hill. We were about twenty-five miles into the race at this point and I was still averaging 18.5mph. I knew I needed to slow down. Some riders went backwards, some forward, and I was left in the middle riding by myself. Around forty miles I reached the turn off for preston. Some locals were cheering along the side of the road. It lifted my spirits. As I stood confused at the t-intersection one of them yelled, "Go right!" So I did. About five miles later it occurred to me that that was probably the only water stop for the day. I was down to one bottle and I was very thirsty. The checkpoint was at sixty-five miles and even though it wasn't at a town I imagined someone would have water there. I decided that I'd drink a bit of my water. Unfortunately I drank almost all of it. I knew that I needed to get water somewhere. For about five miles I contemplated various streams. Then I started thinking about going to a farmhouse, but I wasn't desperate enough. Finally I was desperate enough. I still had forty-five minutes to the checkpoint and I was fading fast. I stopped at the first farmhouse I saw. It looked like it belonged to a crash person. It was rundown and there were twenty cats running around the yard. There was a water pump in the front yard, so my secret hope was that no one would answer the door and I could just use the pump. I knocked. Waited. Nothing. Great. I walked over to the pump and started trying to extract its precious contents. Another rider saw me and veered off with a hopeful look on his face. The rusty abomination that spewed forth could not be considered drinkable in any sense, so even as I stood there trying to rationalize I knew that it wasn't going to work. Just then an old lady opened the door with a curious look on her face. I hastily explained that we were riding our bicycles and had run out of water. "Come to the other door." She filled up our bottles as I thanked her twenty times in the most sincere way that I have ever thanked anyone. I was over half way in around three hours real time, with three full bottles of water. Awesome. I had a snack and continued, feeling much better physically and mentally. After struggling on soft gravel for a while a group of about eight caught up to me and I latched on to the back. The group was working well together so I stayed with them for the next ten miles to the checkpoint. As I arrived at the checkpoint alex was standing there with a sort of angelic glow hanging around him. It was perplexing because I hadn't seen him pass me. Either he passed while I was at the farmhouse or he took a wrong turn and mysteriously ended up back on course. We suspect the latter because he commented on passing a group only to find them back in front of him without having been passed by them. It was a miraculous coincidence in any case, because we arrived at the checkpoint within about a minute of each other. I lingered at the checkpoint for a while, eating a sourdough bun and a few other things. I hadn't eaten enough in the first forty miles and it was really catching up to me. Eventually we set off together, both happy and relieved to be able to ride the final stretch together. I remember very little about the next fifteen miles. We passed people up hills and got passed by everyone going down them. We both suffered a little bit at different times. My ride was revived by a fizzy electrolyte tablet that alex was kind enough to share with me when I complained that the water I was drinking was broken. Around mile eighty there was a water crossing. It was beautiful. The roads leading to it, the sounds, its refreshing coldness. It was all quite amazing. The minimum maintenance road leading away from it was absolutely gorgeous. There were a lot of hills packed into the last twenty miles. Somewhere just before the water crossing I had ran into skibby's riding buddy. "Where's skibby?" I asked. He explained that skibby went down in the crash that I witnessed early in the race and probably had a concussion. He had been taken to Rochester in an ambulance and was done for the day. Alex and I took it easy for much of what remained. We pulled into the high school right around 4pm, seven hours after the start. I was pleased. We spent the next two and a half hours sprawled on the grass waiting for jeff and ryan. The time passed extremely quickly. It felt like ten minutes. It was nice to just sit and watch people achieve something that meant a lot to them. I saw one guy finish with a single pedal, having stripped out the other ten miles from the finish. Amazing dedication. Overall I had a great time and performed as well as I could. The bike was fantastic. I didn't have any problems, it handled the loose shit incredibly well while being very fast. My strategy could have been better%u2026by a lot, but I'm still pleased. I'm also thankful and amazed at my good fortune to a.) not have been involved in the crash that happened just in front of me, b.) stopped at a farmhouse with a compassionate and wonderful cat lady, and c.) found alex at the checkpoint. Gratitude must also be expressed for Chris Skogen and all of the volunteers. He put on an absolutely magical event that transcended boundaries while bringing a sense of joy and fulfillment to so many different people.