---
title: "cleisiophobia?: part I"
date: "2007-08-06 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 'Life'
tags: ['phobias']
---

I have this phobia about locks. For instance, I might remember very distinctly that I've locked a door but if I forget even the most unimportant detail­such as the sound that the lock made when it turned or my reflection in the glass­I will become paranoid and uncertain and, not at ease until I have wiggled the knob or pulled on the handle. This is also true when I lock my bicycles. I will walk around a block twice just to make sure that I haven't left my keys dangled, missed the object to which I was attempting to lock, or completely neglected the entire procedure. For this reason I have started to pay very particular attention to locking things. I will even narrate the experience in my mind as it is accomplished. Now I am putting my hand in my pocket, looking for my keys, I think. Now I looking for the proper key. Remember this shade of bronze, I remind myself. I will note whether the key went in plainly or whether I had to wiggle it. I try not to leave anything abstract. I do not allow my narration phrases like, now I am locking the door. No, indeed, I must explain each motion. The conclusion is only a form of diagnosis. The door is locked. 

There are a lot of things that I like about my new living arrangement, but I have discovered the one that will eventually drive me out of love with the place­. my downstairs neighbor plays his or her music much too loud. Perhaps that is an overstatement. The music is only loud or bass dominant enough that I suffer thumps, vibrations, and shudders. Last night I delayed going to sleep for an hour because he or she had not yet turned it off for the evening. Very few things that are not illegal or widely considered immoral irritate me more than the intrusiveness of apartment dwellers regularly making too much noise. 

On a brighter note, the livingroom area is much more to my liking now, and I have started to organize the garage. The first and last six months at my last apartment were spent living as a guest, either waiting for the space to become mine or realizing that soon I would be on my way. The middle six months were spent realizing that I was living a lifestyle that was incoherant with my financial means. I intend to spend more time making this garage something with a degree of permanance rather than a storm shelter with weights and bicycles. It's cleaner and the lighting is better. I also don't feel terribly bad about doing anything with the door open. I felt uneasy at my last apartment whenever the garage door was open. Perhaps it was because I had a bicycle stolen in the first couple months of living there. 

---

###exhausted: part I 

For the past week I've felt lethargic, pale, disinterested, dreamed up, etc. When I am awake it is as though I am shrouded in an intellectual, physical and emotional fog. Things occur, but they do so halfheartedly and without the detail and precision of reality. Yesterday I had an absolutely miserable time on my morning run­dragging not bobbing, vision skewed, calculating colors such that bright ones could not be processed except as distortion. I have been confused at the flow of conversation, confused that I have not been making sense and yet further confused by the fact that I cannot seem to understand other people. Sip coffee. Annihilated response time. Read carefully like instructions off of a Betty Crocker cake mix. I went through the old neighborhood, knowing that it and she are now buried somewhere in the enormity of it. Not much has changed. It's still quiet and I remain unconvinced that people live in the houses. When autumn rolls around there will be students meandering the subterranean cloudy, wooded caverns, sipping latte and articulating scotch on their laboured breath. Hello. Good afternoon. This is casual. Certainly. Let's not confuse the matter. Are you following? Shall I slow down for you? I have a stack of paperwork that needs my gentle affections. Peruse. Caress. Deduce. File. Repeat as necessary. Apply as necessary. I've been paying more attention to the color of other people's eyes, although I couldn't tell you the eye colors of any of my friends. Other people have very interesting eye colors. 

The xtracycle managed another flat a couple of days ago. I'm averaging a flat about every two hundred miles on that bike­far too many by my accounts since removing the rear wheel requires a degree in science. I spent a while in the garage turning the turn in sixty-fourths, trying to find the mysterious cause, in utter disbelief that the small cut with nothing in it could have been the culprit. It was. This is the first flat since I switched to C ontinental gatorskin tires, but I had hoped that I would go at least a thousand miles without a flat so that I could beam lavishly about the splendor of the tires. Now my answer will be lukewarm and my eyes will be averted.
