---
title: 'a challenge'
date: "2005-05-04 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I like to hide in the little cracks, the tiny crevices in reality where morning is never lost. I only dream I'm a place. I only dream I'm a willing conception. But at last! I spend the days in the nights and I spend the nights where they dare not linger. One day I will be buried. Here are the flowers. Here, on my desk, next to my bottle of ink and my pen that says, “I'm afraid to lift my head.” Here, next to my desk lamp with the long burnt out bulb and a thin layer of dust; here, next to a coffee stain and a little dollop of paint; here, in the slinking in and out of here. I weave and I retrieve. I tell people that I cannot when it is merely that I must not. I tell people that amongst the stars I am but a long lurking rhapsody of juxtaposed selfishness. Aww—the contempt that the waking must have for the sleeping. I feel almost a part of the history of yesterday to which I am but a flicker. And, here, insincere recollection is what the others have that I do not. I have the reflection of a thousand sincerities, of a thousand shades of eye candy. I have the eyes and ears of everyone who has at once realized that the word unkind is an insidious ambition. The shades of walking through life. Footsteps! Three left for me— right where I'd seen them some time ago next to the torn letter meant for me, the torn words that I was meant to read. I woke up and found myself in the most magnificent box. It was warm and comfortable and the boundaries were a pleasant means of keeping my mind from conceptualizing my very smallness. I woke up in a box and the scent of my entire world was a kind of unity. My mind relaxed and I was to the box a statue, no more than a reflective cast—the linger grew inside of me into a disease. I woke up in a box and I started to die. I grew tired and the wanderlust bit hard into the delicate places known only to suffering. They wait there for their cruel master, too begrudged to find solace in the last places on earth. I'm telling you a story, and I'm sure that you don't realize it. I'm whispering words in your ear. I'm yawning. What're you doing? What're you doing tonight in the new life that I've only seen in glimpses? You think that I'm telling a story about someone, but I'm telling it about someone else, I'm telling it to someone else. Yes, I'm taunting you. Not out of spite or disrespect. I want you to know the sound of your brain dripping with these last thoughts. I want you to tell a story. I want you to stop being afraid of those words oozing down the back of your skull. I want you to caress your mortal body and croon at its delicacy. You still don't know, do you?