---
title: "pleasant mountain bike guy: part I"
date: "2007-07-15 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Mostly I have been unamused, although the weather has been splendid and I feel my digestive system is finally coming together. A coworker admitted to dreaming that he dropped one of my tools in the toilet. That's the whole thing, he added. A half a month and I will be living somewhere new, far away from the heaping mounds of gravel that's been dumped in stripes across the streets of saint paul. The reality of it hasn't really presented itself to me yet. My apartment is a bit messier, lapsing into giving up, but aside from that there is very little evidence that I will not be here soon. My furniture is still in the same place, my books and records on their shelves, and my clothing strewn about my bedroom floor. This morning we went for a bike ride. We were taking it easy, cruising along at about 19mph when a guy on a mountain bike with fat, knobby tires shot by us. Curiosity piqued, I rode alongside him and complimented his apparently incredible fitness. He commented on the beautiful weather. Ryan rolled by and picked the pace up to about 24mph. I shrugged my shoulders and followed. The dude on the mountain bike dropped off but met up with us at the Mendota bridge. Nothing like getting your ass kicked in the morning, he commented. I agreed. He asked where we were headed. Over yonder, I replied, gesturing abstractly toward Lilydale. He said he was headed in the same direction and hoped to ride with us a bit more. Neat, I thought. We were at least one person short of our normal Sunday riding crew, so it was nice to pick up another rider along the way. He stopped with us at a rest area and I asked the question that had been bugging me for a bit­What type of riding do you do? He explained that this was his sort of thing now. He used to race in his younger days, but cruising on the mountain bike for fitness was the way to roll now. We dropped him again before Ohio St, but waited to regroup since he didn't know where he was going. At the top of Ohio we stopped for water and peered down at the sleepy city, just now rousting itself from disinterested slumber. We parted ways and rode home. It was a good ride, if only a bit too short. Later in the day my dad helped me finish up the last bits of brazing on my trailer. Later in the afternoon I took a nap that stretched too far in to the evening. Now I'm going to be restless and sleepless for the remainder of the night. As I mentioned, the streets of Saint Paul are covered in gravel.