---
title: "sunday ride: part I"
date: "2007-04-02 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I've been trying to get a regular sunday afternoon bicycle ride going for the past few weeks. So far the largest turnout has been three people, but I'm hoping that with some help from the weather future rides will be larger. Either way, it's been good to get back out on the road bike. Yesterday I felt terribly sluggish, and the weather seemed to match the feeling in my legs. We left the bike shop a bit earlier than normal since I'd acquired a rare weekend day off. The west river road was an unpleasant minefield of ruts, cracks and potholes. The cars on the snelling climb were aggressive and dangerous. On Johnson Parkway Jeff dialed it up to 26-27mph and I was dying to try to hang on to his wheel. When we hit a false flat a large gap opened between us and it wasn't until he noticed that his water bottle had ejected itself that I was able to catch back on. Overall, it was a pretty subpar day, but I had a good time anyway. Riding with Jeff is going to be a good challenge. He's simply in another league. I got home, covered in mud, and decided I'd try to get some laundry done. Everything was going well enough until the third load when I returned to the laundry room to find the stuff that was in the dryer thrown on the floor and the stuff from the washer on top of the dryer. The most perplexing part, however, was that the culprit's things were in the dryer. I did some quick math and determined that one hour and fifteen minutes had passed since I started both machines. The dryer cycle is exactly one hour, meaning that the person did one of the following: promptly took my things out of the washing machine before the dryer was done with its cycle, or brought their wet clothing for another floor and hijacked my machine. After talking myself out of petty vandalism, I brought my wet things to the next floor and found that there were both open washers and dryers, so apparently someone found it more logical to usurp--at great personal effort--the machines that I was using than to walk down a flight of stairs. I hate people. I'm sure that I'm not blogging intelligently, but it's been difficult to maintain any kind of brain momentum lately.