---
title: "from duluth with love: part I"
date: "2007-06-15 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I woke up and made coffee. things have not been going right for a few days. I set my mind on something and no sooner do I begin to visualize its intricacies than it slips away in wisp of incomprehensible vapors, or silvery, slivery strands of metallic me that ooze from the things that I almost begin to touch. I watch close these pretty ones, these sweet people of conviction, moderation--temperate, lustless souls who contemplate in deeds rather than strung off harangues documenting and detailing in its extravagance the doubt that can emerge at the words I should not, or I cannot, or I will not. they are very different from the plump, methodical mechanics of language who pursue radically detrimental institutions of assimilation. make me canned soup. I press the grounds to the bottom of the thermos, plug my nose and tip it rearward, sinking in like melancholy on a blinding and cloudy day, effervescent in my unremarkability. with mathematical blindness and incalculable indifference I approach winded, wheezing, gasping to be noticed for something more than an obstruction. I am not a wall or a thing to be beheld, not a feature of granite or a confluence of mellifluousness. a figure escapes me, down around, skirting sidelong up the slick cobbled street. I watch the motion of its body bounding lifelessly in an imitation of a sickening daydream, thinking, you could be everything. you contain everything. inside of you there is a supernova of me waiting to be exposed. ever the dodderer. I cannot say hello. I cannot spit the words from my mouth. I cannot project. I cannot begin to digest forms except in their misuse, their strategic inability to overlap in exact configurations. a stray line here, a misled curve, a tragic problem of proportion and moderation. this morning I woke up and went in search of hot water. I wanted coffee. I wanted the aroma. I wanted to hold my thermos in my hand and wander the streets waiting for someone to see a man standing in the streets with a thermos. the good luck of it. the precision of good luck. the antithetical proposition that I make by positioning myself such that I might fill a purpose or a reason. the facticity of antitheatrical labors of love. lost in a vacuum and I will never again speak a soft word in that direction. communist prop bearers. do gooders. I've been reduced to a backdrop, a makeshift element of a makeshift proposition. the because clause in the DO NOT DO THIS. DO NOT OPEN UNTIL CHRISTMAS. hah hah hah. 

there was a weird haze over the city of duluth this morning. I wanted to say that the morning was beautiful, but I could not see more than half a mile. I wondered if it was my eyes or my perception of a new place. perhaps all that I could digest was contained within the first half mile of my vision. when I am near my maximal physical output I see as though I am looking through a tunnel. I miss incredible but undeniable things to my right and left. this, of course, makes me an ass. 

I'm going to excerpt something from Americana by Don Delillo. here it is: 

> 1.) The manic quality of these stories provided a nice balance to Merry's conventional episodes of the heart and lower glands. 2.) The night was swarming with serious young people telling their troubles to each other and I preferred to stand aside from all this empathy and slush. 3.) The telling of needless lies to a loved one, or a former loved one, stimulates in the liar a complex feeling of regret, guilt, superiority, pity, tenderness and power--­a compound I would take downstairs with me and analyze like a vial of splendid chemicals. 4.) The fabulist in me, lurking just below the water-line, welcomed the challenge of topping each new lie and looked forward to some distant nexus of perfection, the super-union of all lies into one radiant and transcendental fiction. 5.) Related to (4). Man's amoebic inching thrust toward godlike creativity. 6.) Being beyond gravity, weightless, in a dream assembled by one's own hands. 7.) The sexual excitement aroused in both of us. 8.) Boredom. 9.) I put something of myself into some of those stories and hoped, in vain as it turned out, to arrive at a definition, one disguised of course by the surrounding absurdity­--a definition of myself without the usual anguish such readings entail. 10.) There was really nothing to tell her in the way of troubles, romantic or otherwise. (58)