---
title: "mr. potato head: part I"
date: "2008-05-09 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I woke up at three thirty in the morning. The weather changes and my head is filled with mucous and nightmares. Spring. Watching it through fuzzy eyes--a disgusting whirlwind, scarcely palpable, of sensuous bodies cut out against the same indifferent backdrops. I was in line at the post office. In front of me a girl named Kathryn, clad in a translucent black shawl, was sending a package to her mother in New Ulm. "MOM," the envelope read. Annette was dreaming of further efficiency, nearly melting down from the speed of her hands as they darted unpredictably from drawers to keyboard to package to counter. The maddening dance, and in the chaos I inadvertently stole the pen from the counter. The girl behind me stood uncomfortably close, at times brushing my arm. Space. Don't you understand space? Your blue hoodie, your skin, must remain at least two feet from me at all times, or I might be stricken with unnerving dreams of you. And as my faculties degrade under the weight of SPRING the chatter, the noise, the interwoven bodies whizz by me like projectiles. For a good conversation, for paddling gloves, climbing gear, an epiphany tendered like resignation from a purely indifferent choice of geography. I scan for names, and in my nightmares I am monstrous, not by virtue of being more or less evil, but by being opposite of myself in every way. Out. Of. Control. Filled with this zeal and passion that might be no more than a subdued glance in the waking world, might represent nothing more than a mindless act perpetrated by the circumstances of boredom. No knives. It becomes only a matter of subordinate wills, and this one so strong and uncontrollable that every other is forced to bend to it. Hah. The seemingly solid composition of objects turned to a gelatinous goo capable of emulating any thing or any person at the slightest whim. Whose? What whim? Yesterday on three different occasions I am certain I saw the same head attached to different bodies. First, at the bank; second, at the post office; and third on the head of a girl I almost ran into leaving the post office. The last one bolted from the door of park midway bank wearing a bizarre one piece mini-skirt thing. It resembled a rollergirl uniform. I had just unlocked my bicycle and was returning the street. As the stop light turned green she took off at a trot, holding down her skirt while she tapped along in her heels. The woman at the bank was almost identical in facial expression and features, but was wearing a black shawl that was similar to the unrelated girl in line at the post office. Two people in front of me was the third of the trio, disguised by dyed hair and multiple facial piercings, but no less similar structurally. The redundancy of these images and names made me think that perhaps I was dreaming, accessing familiar things and distorting them only enough to make the experience seem somewhat plausible. Later, however, I slipped into a further state of illusion that I am certain was a dream (because I woke up), meaning that I have either started to layer my dreams or that the mr. potato head like similarities of the three people was nothing more than an extreme oddity fortified by a vivid imagination and willingness to question my own reality.