---
title: 'sunday ride'
date: "2011-04-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Cycling
tags: ['group ride', 'Afton']
---

Before last Sunday, the most recent Sunday ride was EPIC FAIL in October of last year. Technically, I'm not even sure that we rode our bikes that day. I think we might have just drank beer in a small town in Wisconsin while our bikes stood propped next to the front door. Sunday that changed. Jeff wasn't there. Ryan wasn't there. Alex MFer wasn't there. It was a bit strange to be doing the first Sunday ride of the year without any of them. Instead I met with Graham and Andy. The unknown of my own fitness and riding with two unfamiliar people left me completely uncertain as to what I should expect from the ride. Oh, and I rode a bike that I'd only ridden once before (in running shoes with platform pedals while wearing a Citi helmet): a 2010 Giant TCR Advanced 3. I rearranged my bike collection a bit earlier this year to make room for an actual road bike. I'd spent all of last year doing road rides on a cyclocross bike.  
  
I decided to ride the same route that Graham particularly disliked the only other time that he rode with me because I a.) thought it would afford him the perfect opportunity for redemption, b.) really enjoy watching Graham suffer, or c.) love that particular route. We headed through downtown Saint Paul, past the phantom farmer's market and began our climb up towards Mounds Park. I felt good. It was nice to be out on an *aggressive ride*. For the past couple months I have been primarily running. Endurance running is AWESOME and I enjoy it immensely, but for me it's always about a controlled effort. Pushing my body felt great.  
  
Once I was to the top of Highwood I knew that it was going to be a tough day for Andy. Graham was doing well. We waited and regrouped. Cruising down Military road was wonderful. We had a tailwind and had no problem maintaining 25-30mph. The TCR was showing itself to be quite capable and comfortable. Aside from despising the saddle and having inappropriate gearing, I had no complaints. The last road bike that I had was a Specialized Roubaix, and it blew that thing out of the water (excuse the idiom). The TCR is more comfortable, handles better, is faster, more evenly spec'ed, and looks nicer.  
  
We stopped briefly in Afton and I had a chocolate muffin. I had met Michelle and her sister for breakfast at French Meadow, and the pancakes I ate were holding strong even three hours into the ride. Nonetheless, one cannot say no to a chocolate muffin. We left and headed straight for the "big climb". On the approach to the climb a guy passed us. I decided I wanted to catch him on the climb...not to be a jerk, but since Jeff and Alex weren't there, I used this unwitting stranger as my carrot. I caught him earlier than I expected, chatted briefly and then went in front. We rode to the top together. I regretted my gearing and insistence on catching up to this guy a little bit, but we crested together and I bid him a good ride and waited for the rest of my group. Once Graham joined me at the top we started riding. I was a little bit hazy from pushing myself on the climb, so I neglected to think about the fact that Andy didn't know the route. Although we just continued without taking any turns, we soon realized that we were separated.  
  
Graham looped around one direction, and I went the other. No Andy. I stopped and sat in the grass trying to get a phone call in to the bike shop so that I could get his phone number. No service. I waited. A pair of riders rode by and I recognized one of them. "John, is that you?" We chatted briefly and I told him to keep an eye out for our lost rider. We rode back to the freeway.  
  
Once we were near the freeway I had cellphone service again. I called the bike shop, then Andy and we were able to regroup fairly quickly (we'd ended up at almost identical spots by very different methods). The ride back was into the wind. It was largely uneventful. I returned home with about 85 miles for the day. Graham held strong until the end and kept a very pleasant disposition. I was proud of him. Andy was a trooper and limped home. Good ride.