---
title: Thanksgiving weekend running
date: 2013-12-04 08:16:26
template: post.html
photo: http://dropbox.timlupfer.com.img.labori.us/c350x250/blog/zumbro3.jpg
---

__Friday__: The man with the rifle began, "I don't mean to be a prick, but..." He went on to explain that the it was hunting season, and that going on a public trail system during hunting season might get you shot, doubly so if your bright colors are variations of highlighter green rather than orange. We stood dumbfounded, this serving as further verification that the ominous sign of fifteen men crammed into the bed of a pickup truck, clad in blaze orange, toting rifles, and cruising the grounds like post apocalyptic tribesman meant no running for us. We weren't quite ready for that reality, so the discussion ensued--*should we do it?* In our group, I was the least excited to scamper into the woods, relying on only the ion glow of my Twin Cities Marathon shirt and the benevolence or proficiency of amped up gunsmen to keep me safe. "Let's go find some orange," I suggested.

We'd already been driving for two hours, and suddenly my quip about headlamps wasn't looking so clever. We wouldn't hit the trail until after 12pm, and the 17 mile loop could take a while. By the time we traveled to the third nearest town, we'd grown universally nervous about the prudence of our plan, and made a quick decision to continue home and run at Lebanon Hills. Despite the palpable disappointment at missing our first opportunity to run on the trails at the Zumbro Bottoms, I felt relieved. When we reached Lebanon Hills, the lack of lunch and sitting in a car all day amounted to feeling rather terrible. I was breathing heavily and didn't have any rhythm. Solution? Run hard. It's easy to let go of those things when your concern becomes strictly moving forward.

__Saturday&Sunday__: Saturday morning we met at Battle Creek. I trotted at the back of the group and was pleased to be feeling a lot better than the previous day. Jason connected the winding mess into ten miles of enjoyable trail. The temperature was perfect, I was dressed almost correctly, leaves vibrantly covered the trails, and post-run we had brunch at the Triple Rock. Sunday we met up again for the weekly Running Room group run. It was an easy twelve mile day and got me back in the mindset of long, slow, boring runs on multi-use trails.

I can't stress enough how beneficial it's been for me to run with other people. I'm logging 45+ miles/week, but with 30+ of those as group runs, it feels like I'm never forcing myself outside. Running half the distance last year seemed more difficult. 