---
title: "a stranger's thoughts on lovers: part I"
date: "2007-03-30 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 'Writing'
tags: 
---

the other day I was eating lunch at the cafe near my work when I eavesdropped this excerpt of a conversation (second voice removed as it was primarily a cacophony of mm-hmmms and the rest synthesized to the best of my recollection as I was eating a caesar salad): 

"there's a certain competitive nature to these lovers--­biting, scratching, fucking, trying to kill each other in little bits. it's not even really fair to use the word competitive to describe the way in which lovers seem to contest the other's existence with every spent word, every foul touch of emotional spelunking--­lowering into the icy, granite depths, wanting to find out how far, how much, how deep, can I go without being ensnared. violating without vitalizing, taking away sense, imagery, and the ability to sleep at night. fighting lurid beasts, compulsively savage, afraid, idle and dependent; but doing all of this with a coy smile that says, This is not affecting me as much as it is affecting you. but we all want lovers. to think that in our sacrificial moment, splayed out like convent fenceposts, we might attain a higher sense of union, be brought in on a divine and inescapable truth that transcends the biological eventuality of our deaths and our children. but our dreams are made of wax and we are at each others windows, rapping with our shadowy outlines so that the enumerations of our faces will not become anything other than solitary, so that the familiarity will not make the image hateful to ours eyes. or we invent sexy backdrops, splattering ourselves on squares of velvet and turpentine so that we might become abstract. the essence of visual arts begs us not to notice that between lovers there is nothing more than an inside-out hatred that at once feels so different, but recapitulates again and again until we are convinced that the experience does not contain any of its original element. it is a force of nature, and every so often I will catch it in a glance from someone that they suddenly recognize not only the immediate presence of the original element, but that it has always been present. it is, in fact, the lone element of our unity. so we fight each other, tooth and nail as they say, striving to be better than one another, to appear in our silent ways stronger and better acclimated. and lovers take this vow: never go for the kill. because when you go for the kill the game is over. the lovers are complete and no longer lovers even though they've realized that the element of their rapture is no more unique than an ugly glance from a stranger or the hateful smell of balsamic vinegar." 
