---
title: 'Post Almanzo 18 mile run'
date: "2012-05-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Running
---

Almanzo ended with a *bang, *and then a whimper. I went out extremely hard, nearly bridged up to the lead group (Brandon flatted just as I could see them, so I stopped to make sure my local-amateur-unsanctioned-gravel-road-tour-race-thing hero had a chance to get back on), backed off to a more manageable pace, rode strong for a few hours, tried to make another hard effort to move up, and succumbed to the heat and *too much trying* by mile 80. In hindsight, I could have pedaled methodically to the finish, collected my handshake, and still felt pretty good about the day. However, that's not what I did. Like a pouting child, once I didn't have "it", I stopped riding and joined the club for stupid people with overzealous ambitions at postcard events. On this day, it was a big club. One member not in the club: Bryce. Good job riding smarter and better than me.  
  
The day after Almanzo I decided to start the world's most exciting two week marathon training program. I was a on a good pace with my running until April, when the fervor surrounding Almanzo meant that I foreswore the feet and spent all of my time on the wheels. Upon returning, I knew that I needed to pull it together, because failing at two consecutive events is simply not an option. A week of solid running culminated with a beautiful 18 mile Memorial day run. Bolstered by patriotism, I decided to run down to Fort Snelling, through the park, and then through the National cemetary. The traffic jam started at post road and continued to 494. I couldn't believe there weren't more people on foot. There's a train right over there. *Duh*. Even with the parking lot of cars, it was quite beautiful and sobering. I circled the airport and returned back to Minneapolis via Bloomington-Cedar. I was beginning to feel the consequences of only stopping for water twice, but I was still able to finish strong. This leaves me feeling pretty confident about completing this weekend's Minneapolis Marathon. I don't expect to shatter any PRs or anything, but I'm really only running it to facilitate base mileage for the trail runs that I'm doing in July and September.