---
title: "in the cold: part I"
date: "2008-02-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I wake up early. The wind is howling and I have an incredible headache. I have been shopping for pants on the internet. I've lately become very disappointed with the performance of my default pants. The ass tends to wear out completely within 2-3 months, while showing noticeable indications of its impending fate within weeks. Perhaps I am deluded in expecting more from a "work pant", or perhaps I am underestimating the unanticipated impact of riding a bicycle for transportation. We're in the midst of another cold spell. Both the Pugsley and I have been getting restless, wishing for either unseasonable warmth and no precipitation or temperatures in the twenties with a bit of snow. January and February have provided a limited amount of the former and almost none of the latter. I'm sure if I looked at a weather almanac I would find that the average temperature has been at or above normal, and my complaining is unwarranted. Perhaps it is only the lack of snow that makes the winter seem so bizarre and senseless, producing a jarring juxtaposition between the inhospitibility of subzero temperatures and the once-live-lushness of the blades of grass that still peek teasingly through the snow. Late last year I got a new filling on the left side of my mouth. It is deep. When I return indoors after spending even a half an hour outdoors I am struck for five or ten minutes with the most intense pain. It is as if someone is pumping electricity into the side of my face. 
 
Lately I have become obsessed with extreme condition ultramarathons, both those on foot and by bicycle. This past week the Arrowhead Ultra that runs from International Falls to Tower concluded. I've been ferociously scouring the web for first hand accounts of the experiences had there. Generally speaking, it seems that it was a good year, with well over half of the field finishing and records being set in the foot and ski divisions. I'd like to compete in the event next year or the following. As I already have the appropriate bike, the next step will be to acquire the requisite equipment to endure 30-60 hours in subzero temperatures. I'm not sure how viable it will be to train for such an extreme event within the comfort of the city, so I expect that it might take me until the 2010 event to figure out what I need and log the necessary snow miles. It's merely the glint of a dream at this point, but it will be something to weigh more heavily after the marathon in June.