---
title: 'hip and cool'
date: "2010-09-02 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
---

it is morning. I am awake and rational. impulsive. emotional. contrary. incisive. confused. connected and disconnected. last night it stormed. I woke up. became insane. closed certain windows where the rain splashed as if it emanated from the ledge rather than the sky. this morning the smell is fresh and new. *september*. months passing, shifting into blissful cornucopia of shape, sensation, words and ideas. I remember more walking on/in/around the rain slicked streets in the past two months than the entire rest of my life, my feet filled with lightness and euphoria that can only be the product of letting go of the darkness. I have done this, and even as I clutch at it I know that it is not mine. *the darkness*. the absentee darkness recoiling from my confused sentience. poisonous. toxic. the compulsion to mix, define and articulate a blended spectrum of the *inabsolute *by emotional equality and indifference, the mere act of propelling and synthesizing. inspired in the space of the world, by the residual ambiance of *strangerlight* and *dreamanipulation. *pressing structures with the redefinition of the cadence of the movement, the willingness for subjection, the invocation of *communion*. boundless, unfulfilled spiritual energy slipping and spinning like the cogs of some ill tempered, willful machination. I was once seen in this shared dream. the clock read 11:11, so it was not an unconscious dream. I was/am/will be awake. standing, sitting, concealed. posture corrected. too much time will pass and I will switch to a new stance. this stance. this waiting, maddening stance of self directed/centered/defined/defied expectation. yesterday, tomorrow, then, now, past, present. it is 11:11. it is not 11:11. acting to the shadow. *making love*, inventing ecstasy to thing projected on wall. the invocation of morning, the waking state.  
  
this drunken, slovenly man invited himself into the repair area. this is NONCUSTOMERSPACE. FUCKYOUASSHOLESPACE. hip and cool. fancy school. I watched talking myself out of *disposition*. "I am humane." repeat, reflect, articulating my humanity through tolerance. still I looked at him as if he could not contain the characteristics of human dwelling, human infestation. but I am IMPROVED. I waited. I knew that he would reveal something that would rearrange and shock. as he left he said, "now I can get some chinese food, a twelve pack of beer, go home and watch the TWINS." ha ha ha! hahahahaha!!! suddenly the man became human. his story was not so absurd: single, old, fat, slow, unintelligent, but absolutely the same as me. might I one day be this slovenly, despicable creature? hahaha! am I already that creature? was I watching my own reflection? *why do you look so good when I've been drinking? I've got a sweet little gal at home who says she loves me? I guess it's drinkin', swearin' trash that I prefer...why does there have to be a morning after? why do I have to stop to start again?* ...so I can lie awake and think about my sins.