---
title: 'Last long run before Superior'
date: "2013-08-24 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

After initially planning to run on Saturday morning, I decided to move my last pre-Superior long run to Friday evening so that I could run with other people. The route remained unchanged--somewhere between 27 and 30 miles--with around half of it on trails. Aside from having a vague notion of where we were going, I didn't put a lot of effort into preparation. There would be a stop just past the halfway point to resupply, so I grabbed a handful of gels and made sure that I had plenty of water. Good, right?

Bunda and I ran to the light rail, and embarked on a remarkable journey to the north end of Long Meadow Lake, beginning when I boldly positioned myself in a space opposite two strangers where there certainly was not room for me. This foolhardy act encouraged a twenty minute train ride of knocking thighs and unceasing eye contact. This was only interrupted when a hobbling woman with lipstick smeared all over her face, speaking in a contrived British accent quickly made me forget everything else. She wanted to call me *Timothy*. I do recall that much. In short, it was just what I've come to expect when we go on long runs together--*weirdness*.

We reached the trailhead and met up with Madeline and Jeannie, who would each be joining us for the Long Meadow Lake portion of the run. The temperature was beginning to feel more tolerable than the 87 degrees that it was when we left my house. Aside from looking somewhat unfamiliar--probably due to the fact that I've never done the loop in the summer--the run around the lake was pretty uneventful. The trails were a bit sandy in places, but it was nice to be off of the road. The sun went down just after we got out of the woods.

Running the section from the National Cemetery to the Superamerica just before Fort Snelling felt awesome. I was breathing easy and could have been going much faster. However, I knew that I was getting hungry and thirsty. I'd shared some of my water with Jeannie and had been going without for the past three miles. It wasn't a huge deal, but I went into the gas station with impaired judgment. Having not eaten a real dinner, and replenished only with three gels to that point, I knew that I needed calories. In a moment of sheer idiocy, I selected the following: a can of Coke, a Naked Juice, and a chocolate muffin. Bunda gave me the *What the hell?* look when I returned, and rightly so.

I struggled to finish all of it, but had convinced myself that I was going to die without proper caloric intake. Bouncing down the long, steep descent into Fort Snelling certainly didn't help. I suddenly felt shitty, but thought it would pass in a couple miles. The state park was incredibly dark and a little bit eerie. I would have more fully appreciated this fact if I didn't feel like vomiting.

After crossing to the Saint Paul side of the river, I realized that the feeling wasn't going to pass until I *actually* vomited. I waited for a spot where I could climb well into the woods and got down to business. A bubbly, chocalately mess emerged, after which the post-puke wave of energy that I've heard so much about ensued. We ran the next couple miles decently until the post-puke wave of energy gave way to the post-post-puke *oh no, now I really don't have any fluids or calories in me* bonk. The run that seemed so promising had turned into a complete mess. Fortunately, we were 24.5 miles in, and only had 2.5 to go. I dragged myself home, happy to be done. 

It certainly would have been nice to have a more promising final long run before Superior, but I'm going to chalk it up to anomalous circumstances and poor decision making. Until the stomach problems, I was running easy. Even today, my legs feel unaffected by the miles. I'm confident I could go do 20 or so without feeling terrible. The takeaway? No more chocolate muffins. I'll probably try to get in 14-18 on Sunday, and then taper for the next two weeks with nothing longer than 7 miles.