---
title: "noise: part I"
date: "2008-02-03 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

There is a certain pulsing sensation to the noise from the ceiling fan, which makes it makes it difficult to properly assess the intonation of each word. The mutilated conversation, by structure, feels as though it is artificially drowning and buoying in alternating waves, while at the same time its ambition follows another pattern so scarcely discernible that it takes on an air of disbelief and suspicion. The circumstances thus illustrate the problem of our relationship: noise. As we conclude we stare at each other, knowing at once that something was communicated and missed--not because one was not listening or the other was not speaking, but because there was a dissonance to which our sounds and textures were savagely torn and compounded into an expanding darkness that would then grow into animosity. To turn to one another was to turn toward an expanse over which these fracturations of self would not travel, and in doing so it became an act of wild and frenzied self abandonment. Even now, when I think about it in full knowledge of our hateful circumstances, I consider it navigable. In spite of every piece of evidence that I have to the contrary, I think myself capable of recklessly wading through the darkness if only I had some hope that I would find something still alive on the other side. I walk as close to the edge of the darkened mass as comfortable and listen closely. Nothing. Silence resonates again in pulses, but this time it is my own heartbeat, the function of my own body, reverberating back upon itself. At times I think of you and am sure that I hate you. At others I am equally convinced that I love you. Nietzsche said, "Exhaustion is the shortest way to equality and fraternity". I am exhausted. I am done imagining ourselves in this precarious game of who can give the most or the least to the void between us--the void to which we lose without gaining. I no longer care for its extremes. Yet, like any being I am not in full possession of my senses. I can easily be caught up in feeling contrary emotions and ideas. I say this and in twenty minutes time I will be a raving and incomprehensible madman. It is the psychology of the madman that makes a lover, that on a mere whim one might transform from terror to bliss without the slightest indication or remorse. In this there is faith--the clutching of one terrified creature to another, seizing upon those communicable moments wherein the noise ceases and rather than silence there is the sound of a familiar voice. ...or perhaps nothing except the acceptance that the thing that we hold is equally frail, that there are times when it will not speak sense, when it will fail and even die. I try to listen. I try to force my way through the dim vacancy that has occupied my mind, and when I catch a word I am suddenly attentive. Do you know what's happened to me? Will you listen to my confession and still follow me to the ends of the earth? It was as if nothing was happening inside any of them. I scanned their faces for even the slightest recognition of the circumstances, but I saw nothing except the slight glow of intoxication and boredom. How could you be bored knowing that this will never ever happen again? I considered it the greatest love story that I've ever read, the only one that was absolutely, faultlessly true. It was not in the gradual regeneration of the man that it blossomed, but rather in his surrender from a theory of self aggrandizement. And so I fall, I fall to my knees, and there is nothing there.