---
title: 'sensory showdown'
date: "2011-02-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
---

it was friday night. I borrowed the brazilian man's shoes. twist-turn-step. repeat. out of my element, but dis*leveled* by the combined intoxication of a small amount of alcohol and the desire for just this: to be frightfully uninhibited, to follow the language of the body as it discards and deregulates, reveling in a pervasive state of play. borrowed shoes, borrowed hat. the floor of the eurovan was a black and white checkerboard. I later claimed to the only slightly amused stranger that we were in the future, when in fact, we were from the past. here twisting, rolling, falling down, sliding across the floor, sitting in an igloo, hopping a fence, but mostly just DANCING. the people were largely unaffected. the sweat collected on my forehead. HOTPANTS? which one is *hotpants*? or is that a concept? the music penetrated the shadows and became the moment of feeling as if you were simultaneously witnessing and incapable of being witnessed. the freefall of coming back to earth and seeing everything spread out in front of you, a vast panorama of systematic human behavior. the night that we met, it was amazing to me how the order of everything asserted itself when we found ourselves in the clouds. back on earth it appeared as chaos and anarchy, self indulgent people thrust into motion by the most primitive and inarticulate compulsions. to act strangely is to do this: wake up, deliberate on the previous day's behavioral patterns, parse them for automation, and re-dream as necessitated by this paring down of the skin's desire. I had a dream. we were standing in the kitchen. it was before the dancing. it was before looking up from the checkerboard floor at the tree branches lining the opening to the stars. it started as dream analysis and shifted to a conversation about lucid dreaming. my dream was this: I was in an apartment. everything was a shade of brown. the walls were cheap, faux wood paneling and the carpet was brownish-gray, matted and disheveled like a dirty dog. everything in this apartment was too big. I had just moved here. I understood that it was not my size that was changed. I was not *small*. the apartment was dimly and artificially lit. the door did not fit correctly in the door frame, allowing a gap, through which a bright white light penetrated. I could see the deadbolt. it seemed fragile. the phone rang repeatedly. I answered each time and the voice asked for someone with a different name. Olaf (three-syllable-last-name). talking about it, it almost made sense. the second time that we went out to the fire there was a girl. she wiped away a tear from the corner of her eye. I listened to the conversation trying to reconcile the different experiences of my varied senses. *what is happening? is this the nature of human experience? *it is winter. I returned the shoes and we went to sleep.