---
title: 'denisteering'
date: "2012-01-25 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
tags:
---

a couple weeks ago I finally resolved to fix the handful of dental issues that I've been successfully avoiding for the past few years, including: a crown, extraction of all of my wisdom teeth, repair of a bad filling, and two surprise cavities! the tooth that needs a crown was filled with the same stuff that children get when they need to have fillings in their non-permanent teeth. the surface finally eroded to an extent that provided the impetus to *do something about it*. since my previous dentist went into semi-retirement and joined a terrifying guild of local dentists, I opted to explore the often suggested alternative of the u of m dental school. students get to prod at your face and you get a deal. since all of my work is expensive it seemed like an appealing alternative. today was my second appointment. the student who is doing most of my work is kind and competent, if only a bit rough with her tools. however, today included a visit to the oral surgery department for a "screening" for my wisdom tooth extraction. it began with an hour and fifteen minute wait. this was followed by a jock re-asking me a series of questions from a green sheet of paper on which I had previously written the answers. *do you have cardiovascular problems. 'no.' do you have respiratory problems? 'no.'* and so on. he then rolled up a television and started a short "informed consent" video. I was surprised that amongst a host of other warnings about potential consequences of the operation, it stressed that I *could die*. really? I mean...for real? I could *die* during an operation to remove my teeth? it then went on to show another very alarming illustration where part of the jaw is removed to access the teeth (one of my four teeth requires this) but then cracks, flopping limply downward and invoking a cartoonish frown on the face of the victim. *shit*. this is serious business. the warnings continued, showing what would happen if the drill goes into my nerve or if infection or dry socket occur after the operation. I felt pretty awful after watching this horror show. I switched off the television. the jock hadn't returned so I waited. he finally returned with a professional who spoke to us for about thirty seconds, saying that due to my age and angle of the teeth the operation should be performed by one of the graduate students, rather than one of the undergraduates. *you're not an old man, but after you turn thirty the jaw gets hard. *now on top of everything else my advanced age was brought to my attention. I made an appointment and left the oral surgery department feeling more than a bit glum. upstairs, things went much better.