---
title: 'Day thirty-nine'
date: "2010-12-16 12:00:00"
template: post.html
tags: 'meeting michelle'
categories: Life
---

**Day thirty-nine. **Here. Here, redefined and re-purposed in the way that transforms astronomy into astrology. I know your birthday and your second favorite color (that you sometimes will say is your favorite). We are planning a vacation and falling asleep together in a twin sized bed *or* OURBED. Still I sleep comfortably, as our interlocking bodies blend te-(mpera|x)-tures and my mind rests without sinking far from the realREALidEAL. Dizzy and detoxifying, I invite you into my *mind* and you stay there, willingly occupying the space that I have prepared just for you...for us. There was a moment when I mourned the loss of *cataloging *everything, of putting our stories into words and collecting them like stamps, comic books or pez dispensers. It passed quickly when I realized that instead of chronologically indexed and compartmentalized stories, I have found a single, evolving, ever wonderful and inconceivable story. No longer a disconnected narrator, I am a protagonist. Here.  

I got to the triple rock early. We were meeting an hour before the Dark Dark Dark show for dinner. The booths were all taken, so after going to the bathroom I took a spot at the end of the bar. I was wearing cycling shoes and carried a pannier. Ice covered my beard and neck gator. It slowly melted and dripped to my pants. He asked me if I wanted a dinner menu. *I will, when she gets here.* I ordered a beer and sipped it slowly, delighted that soon you would arrive and everything would change.  

The triple rock is strangely prominent in my history. Always at the story's edge, it has provided a place of pleasant indifference. Years ago, I met keith-keithers there to TALK. Life was at a moment of annihilation. Everything was changing: my work, my relationships, my face, my words, my temperament and my people. It was a neutral setting and a neutral character. Hunched against the wooden bench I explored the myriad of fascinations that had so recklessly propelled me in a seemingly catastrophic direction . In this setting it instead became something systematically laid out on the table, like scraps of napkins with words on them. Shopping lists. Phone numbers. Reminders. Ruminations.  

Piecing it together like a ransom letter, I figured out nothing. Life changed. Characters changed. Often it was a regular end to nights that started with piano jazz and awkward indoor foliage. Cadillac. Andrew. Etc. Racing Milo across the Cedar bridge in my track drops, praying that I'd be able to skid my way to a fantastic stop and navigate the bombastic sidestreets to this sanctuary of nothingness, this vacancy of anything except for perpetual rearrangement and analysis. There I was again, falsely blending and bopping my head to the razor edged punk rock that compelled my early twenties. There were more stories, more walking away, and more returning without feeling as if any impression had been made on or by me. Oh, make no mistake: things were happening. I watched this drunken man load his bike on to a stranger's roofrack and lose his limbs to the sprawling motion of oceanic low tide, and without this: *the language of the sea.* This place became central to me in this very impersonal way. Bands banged away and valiantly took shots of whisky...traumatic post-postpunk offerings made more significant than the four dollar investment for the waif'ish, derelict FREEthinkers. My Gitane left my life with the last of those bandstickers and this place once again faded while I made more pieces.  

So I sat there sipping my beer waiting for you to arrive. All of these pieces finally conjoining in this moment when covert character development would reveal a protagonist and the story that start-start-started with US.