---
title: 'extracting consistency'
date: "2009-11-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

sunday morning. I am sitting alone in the livingroom drinking a cup of coffee. on it, three different sized hearts, staggered indefinitely. clementine is gone this morning. it is different without her here. my brain acts accordingly: extroversion becomes introversion. I sip and think. neither is explicitly good or bad, but when I am experiencing one I am often longing for the other. right now I am missing BABY. lately she has been helping me get ready for work, handing me gloves, helmets, stray taillights. it is less efficient than leaving the house on my own, but I like it. I leave the house and my mind perceives things differently. ebbing and flowing, assessments of beauty lost in a display of dazzling human sympathy. I will stoop now to make her laugh, do things that are blatantly not me. in the quiet, sipping my coffee, I think and assess. I confidently identify the things and ideas that *constitute me*. however, this is minor. it is a deceptive narrative that constructs itself in the quiets times, in the times between those when I act impulsively and selfishly. this is me. this is not me. for years I have been dragging out this self directed, self diagnosed narrative. for truth. for authenticity. yet, the consistency of this thing, the pattern of human life fails to emerge. reflectively I say, *I miss this child because she brings me joy*. thursday I would not have said that. she was in a perpetual state of tantrum. she was not interested in me. my temperament mirrored hers. *I am not interested in you or your selfishness*, my expressionless face betrayed without word or incident. I did not mean it. I did not even think the words. but quietly, sipping my coffee on a sunday morning, I can admit it. I acted differently, reflexively. pulling away because she was pulling away. I try to narrow down my behavior, try to expound so that for once I might consider my actions and perceive them as free of the malleability that allows me to contain contrary thoughts without discomfort. often people around me are compelled to have an opinion on something without giving it context. everything is context dependent. or it is psychological herding. the type of bullshit that leads to absolutism, racism, bigotry. those are bigger ideas though. I mustn't be derailed into trying to talk about something bigger. I do not have the words or intelligence for those discussions. people tell me that I like certain things and that I do not like other things. *but you don't like children*. not necessarily. given the context of my experience previous to clementine, I did not like children. I experienced them in ways that were unrewarding and often perplexing. things screaming from afar. I dislike loud, abrasive noises. because my experience was primarily from a certain distance the context suggested that children are associated with a particular type of discomforting noise. however, I realized that my association was context dependent and that the act of living with a child would be much different. I had no means of understanding how the experience would be different. perhaps it would be better. perhaps it would be much worse. I did not know so I approached it as I would anything else about which I am ignorant. I experienced. naively at times. foolishly. most often without the very adult sentiment that I should have an opinion prior to experience. this morning I miss clementine. I would not have expected it. it is a sensation that I've discovered only as it has been experienced. I sit here sipping my coffee, trying to extract consistency from a being that often seems to have none.