---
title: 'pulsing from its source, the thing contracts'
date: "2009-05-07 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

It is warm today and I am tired. I will talk about everything now. Got home. Coffee. I was filthy. Green- yellow tree sap all over my hands. As the bright lights invaded our shoreline I crumbled to the earth amidst a wreck of downed foliage. Ha Hah. And there I was. I got home and I was filthy. A mild headache was gathering in the back of my skull from slight dehydration and lack of caffeine-upon-waking. I threw my clothing on the bathroom floor and sat with my cup of coffee, hopelessly gifted at being hopeless. Breakfast. Cereal. The type with milk. But that was once I was home. As I passed by the park near the Hampden coop I decided to stop. I've stopped there before. Always with purpose and usually while running. This time I looked around, learned about the strange dimensions of the park. Weird and triangular, paths that lead nowhere. Off the curb as randomly as stepping from the top of a thirty story building. I've thought about it before: stepping from the top of a thirty story building. I've thought about the experience of falling, weightlessness, the certainty of death. How strange. Unlike the building, there was nothing but uncertainty when I stepped from the curb. More earth. Another place to shuffle my feet while the seas of people part almost magically around me. I was at home, eating my cereal and drinking my coffee, trying to stave off one of those maddening, day-wrecking headaches. In the shower I washed my hair first and then my body. I usually do just the opposite. This morning it felt right. My face, my mind, my head felt filthy. When I got out of the shower I could not see myself in the mirror. I had been in there too long. Time passed. I made a sandwich. Turkey and cheddar. Ate an apple. A granola bar. A very usual routine. I needed to do something else. It was not because I was driven or compelled, but rather that not doing something would have made me feel inhuman. Running. I decided to go running. A mid-afternoon shuffle (still shuffling) into the blitzing wind. It was dry and hot, stirred up from far south of here where the sunlight masquerades as city lights. The endless day/night. My awkward forward motion continued. I looked at myself in store front windows as I ran down Como. I tried to hold my hands differently. I tried not to look so pathetic and frail. Look tough. Ball your fucking fist. Ball your fucking fist. Bring your arms lower. Lean back. Puff out your chest. It didn't work. The next window was just the same except that there were real people staring back at me. I closed my eyes. I opened them. Motorists out of control. Ejaculating everywhere. Fucking intense. Sickening. Always inches from being run over, and that's even when you're sitting in the demented triangular park looking at your shoes. I was thirsty. I hadn't made up for the hydration deficit that I'd incurred on our hammerfest camping trip. I had the water. I chose not to drink it, instead shuttling it to and from my apartment. On my run, I did not have the water and the city has yet to deem it appropriate to turn on the water fountains in Saint Paul. Fuck them. I couldn't help it--I played with my tongue on the roof of my mouth. I just couldn't help it. I could feel the tender pink flesh ripping apart and I just couldn't stop. Like eating glass, or walking off of the top of a thirty story building. I wonder sometimes, whether most suicides from heights are started with an actual jump. "He jumped from that bridge." Did he jump or did he tip? Or did he just walk as though through a demented, triangular park in the middle of the city. I returned home panting, nearly defeated, amazed that not long ago I could run that same distance four consecutive times, and faster. Our bodies deacclimate so quickly. Perpetually in need of a reminder of what they are supposed to do. I make a list for my arms, then my legs, then my head, and so on. I felt filthy. I washed my hair first. I touch it now. It is contained in my expression. It is working its way outward so that I will not feel it anymore. Like puss from an infection. Two loads of laundry, more coffee, list some shit on ebay, twenty- five minute nap, etc. Things pulse from their source, begging to be noticed. Just noticed.