---
title: 'drive by'
date: "2005-06-20 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I have no stomach for this any longer. The world is full of assholes, people whose existence serves as nothing but a reminder of the brutality and morbid absurdity of life. I put a big gear on my bike and decided that I would ride laps around the lake, that I would try to push my recent discontent into the small spaces between my rapidly beating heart. When I arrived, there were people in love, everywhere. I felt sad that I was alone with my bicycle, and sure that had I taken any more than a casual glance I would have seen people in flight. I could hear their smacking lips as I passed by. On the second lap a car pulled up beside me and I heard something crash against my rear wheel--they had thrown a glass of soda at me, and proceeded to yell from their open windows what a disgraceful faggot I was for merely existing. They drove a bit further, and where the road turned they ran into the curb and stopped yelling. I laughed, but couldn’t help feeling a bit remorseful that these are the people who I share my lonely plane of existence with; these are the people who will grow old in the same place that I do and be confronted with the same ticking hands of time. My allergies have been horrible today, or I’m getting sick, and quite frankly I don’t care which. The people at work are smug. More than just the people at work, but they are the ones that I am once again forced to pander to. They all vie for adoration, no, that’s not quite right: they all vie for my submission, but they do it in their smug way that says, "I don’t need, nor want, you to submit to me, but I will do everything in my power to make you do it anyway." I’m sick of smug people. I’m sick of pricks. I’m sick of alarm clocks, cars, roads, lights, electricity, and humidity. When I go, everyone is going to think it was on purpose. They’re going to give me way too much credit. I’m contemplating eliminating all of my real life friends, telling them quite simply that interacting with them only makes me more sad and more distant, that it is, perhaps, wiser if I just forget the touch of human skin or the sound of my name being spoken with some bit of intent, my name being spoken without a question mark at the end that wonders if I ever existed at all. It makes me sound stupid. I should try to sleep before I have to go to work again; I should try to sleep while I can, before it starts all over again. I should try to sleep, and sleep, and sleep...