---
title: 'daydreaming'
date: "2010-05-27 12:00:00"
template: post.html
tags: 'meeting michelle'
categories: Life
---

time is slowly/quickly/sporadically passing. a few nights ago I went over to ryan's to pick up my sandals and we had a conversation about many things--the relativity and balance of individual human experience, for instance. it was the first time in quite a while that I could feel my mind genuinely working beyond its capacity. as I tried to articulate my thoughts on the matter I would have to pause occasionally to let the ideas catch up to my consciousness. there is a layer of impression and thought just below the surface that I cannot always access. often while I sleep my mind exhibits the most amazing ability to create and conform ideas to its immense space. I think that everyone is like this: wandering around with a mind that is much more capable than the evidence provided by experience might suggest. meet me and you will insist that I am dull and dimwitted. read my words and you will think I am slightly less dull, but equally dimwitted and confined to a very narrow range of ideas. observe my dreams, however, and you might be impressed. the unfortunate part about dreaming is that upon waking I am left to describe my dreams with the wrong faculties. for example, I could describe the dream that I had last night wherein I was heaving a large raccoon carcass and then falling to the earth, but it would not represent any of the same things that it did in its proper space. therefore, when I have a conversation that even slightly transcends the limitations of my degraded, waking form I am grateful. I would try to describe it, but just as trying to describe a dream with incorrect faculties would prove futile, so too would trying to describe a conversation that required a level of self-access that I presently do not have.  

I purchased a dish drainer. it is the first item that genuinely improves my daily life. as has been the case each time I have moved, I didn't quite gather all of the details of my new apartment. I remember that it is conveniently located, has a nice smell, plenty of space, strange cabinets, and pleasant morning light. however, I do recall the kitchen being very small and most likely without any sort of machine for washing my dishes. that is okay. in fact, it is probably preferable as long as I have a dish drainer. so now I do. I have been spending much of my free time using google street view to determine the places that I will go. it is amazing to think of the places and things that I will be able to reach by only using my feet. the past year of living in a place where almost nothing is reachable on foot has given me a greater appreciation for the role that circumstance plays in the choices a person makes about transportation. I have never taken the bus from here, but I have occasionally mapped out a route. every bus that leaves this area first goes a mile and a half into downtown where you are forced to transfer to another bus to reach your destination. the projected times have been unimpressive, often taking more than an hour to travel distances less than ten miles. on foot there are a few "markets", a couple gas stations, and disappointing coffee shops. all of these things are on the fringe of winter walking distance. the minimum distance to get groceries is eight miles round trip and includes at least one steep climb. soon I will be able to walk to the grocery store, or if I am feeling lazy, pedal a few easy blocks.