---
title: 'Modified'
date: "2005-04-26 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

Modified. A worthless reambition and a mutated gene that leaves hand hanging limp at side, grazing with each footstep against iced flesh. Make myth out of man and the moment becomes one of tedious and anticlimactic cinema, a mellow and insincere end to a life likely to be sequeled. A grim face tells that  (here) someone to talk to. Words hang in air, a victim of the urgency of life and death (mannerism betrays voyeurism). Lies pale against the softness of palette and the absolute unknowing of the man on the mantel, the man in the space between flickers of flame and mutated reambition. Standing there in the  corner the I would rather die of the miserable place between knowing and not knowing, the never quite permanence of one or the other. The scene flickers in the places between the man on the mantel and his space between. Suicide Joe and his suicide dreams started out in the back of the mind of dreamy eyed  Dillinger, a muted plague growing the moments brighter. Foamy breath swallowed hard in the back of a movie theater where vixens with brass belt buckles and metal knuckles learn the callous of their palms, seduced by the midnight glances of glowing spots of pupil against the shades of gray—the depth and the  width and the birth of the monster, inside. The I will not survive of yesterday’s still warrant. Totally fucked. Tension in the mind of the motherfuckers and ill survivors, the forever scarred and scared of the  sacrilege. Triumph in the mind a moment too late but foul along the not dying of bullets dripping down my skull. Holy shit! The fuckers of the pirated never never, the fuckers of the I want their reflection, the fuckers of the I will succeed in a world not quite arrived. The I want the wanton, the vixen in the  shaved skull of the punk rock genius bent on despair. The cheap beer and cigarettes of the I am a stain, the bloody knuckles of the pure moment of thank you for my life. The hermitage of my foul friend and suicide Joe dies a little bit. It’s all coming together and it’s all falling apart. Summer sails set free  the mind. This, if the time. This, if the girl. This, if the coming together. This, if the broken. This, if the pieced together. It’s all coming together. Fuck! Everything in its way and its place, everything without a moment—a pulp of shades and pivot through the years, slink into yesterday where I will always  be. Suicide Joe trapped in the reflection of the mirror, poised forever in the posture of who we were then, of what we held then, of those moments when all else melted away and we stood timeless against the backdrop of everything lost, rubble at our feet and the fluttering pattern of our hearts tasting for the  first time. Human reproduction bonds a new art to a fake death and plastic idols, trapped in the spirit of lost on found, of pissed away bludgeoning. Fuck! Scalped by the ghosts on the patio, smoking and speaking with low voices of the time goes backwards. Life on backwards, forever unwinding in televised, synthesized, and condensed riffs. Dead at the beginning unwinding the forever. An error has occurred. Better think about it. Fuck! Rub the sallow body against  the brittle skin. Chip away at the think about it. The cemetery sings at night to the wound of bodies found familiar, torn away to the unwilling chasm of tomorrow’s maybe. 

Stark naked, wiggling through a dungeon. 