---
title: "dmitra: part I"
date: "2007-06-28 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Writing
tags: 
---

I recall rather vividly the last time that I saw archangel Dmitra. He had taken the form of a woman and was explaining to me something of which I was already keenly aware. I became hasty with the archangel, quickly saying "I know, I know." Then last night I had this dream. The dream itself felt androgynous, but not in a way that confused one of two things; rather, it superseded and transcended them. The archangel was offering me a taste of this ill received divinity, so clearly illustrated in the abandonment of contrary or oppositional forms. At first I felt disbelief. It was amazing to me that al of the definitions that I had created to compartmentalize the things around me were, in fact, arbitrary. In a sense the material that I was experiencing was a composition of wasted time and form. I resented dmitra outwardly for thinking me so juvenile, but inwardly because her keenness allowed her to make a point that I would not have allowed if it had been made incrementally. I have a habit of cutting entities off at the point when I realize where they are directing their momentum. I will become furiously aloof, if one can be such a thing, and conceive of every possible complication to their strategy. Most people say things so that one response is much more likely than another. This is particularly evident in offers made towards good nature rather than specific circumstances. 

I remember the last time I saw Dmitra still clinging to mortal life. It had become evident in my behaviour that I'd become acquainted with the incongruous nature of his self-hood­the separation existing between his experience and his ability to engage with his experience. For this reason our acquaintance was forced to an early conclusion. I called him out and he was not ready concede the layer of film that stood between the apparent pain of authenticity and self. Everything was quite muted, and I resented that immortality had made things so easy for him. I am confident that she felt something in those final moments, or there again years later when our images started once again to haunt each other. I hope that it was only the terrible reality of experience that barred her from taking full form as a human being capable of dying. I've gone through a series of responses since that moment, moving between happiness, sadness, indifference, contentment, despair, hope and forgetfulness­that is to say, I have responded as any attuned individual might to an encounter with a thing that has the capacity to pick and choose emotions and facial expressions. I've even spent moments hating Dmitra, thinking how much I resent her cowardice. In the end, however, I can only feel as bad as one can about seeing a rainbow for an instant only to have it soon replaced by a backdrop clouds.
