---
title: "recalling a letter I wrote just about one year ago: part I"
date: "2007-10-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I can smile knowingly, intimately, playfully, ruefully, carefully, disinterestedly, magnanimously, ominously, momentarily, wistfully, cleverly, etc; but I can never just smile. so I wonder out loud at the smile that your last message produced. there were two men on stage, one on the mandolin and the other on the banjo. the mandolin player was rail thin, composed of nothing more than bone and sprouts of thick, black fur. his eyes protruded--dark, ovular surfaces of glass to which a lesser man might have knelt. I later found out that his name was jim. Jim stared unrelentingly at his banjo playing compatriot--the night's host, for whom fate had enacted a very opposite plan. Bill the banjo player was obese and didn't seem to like eye contact. when someone in the crowd made a boisterous reminder that we should fill the tip jars, he only made an ill fated joke about pissing in them. Jim, meanwhile, made sparse references to obscure cantos of obscure literature in obscure languages. they played well, at least well enough for an audience of twenty-five that was predominantly pentagenerian. coffee was on twenty-five cent refill and I was pleased enough to sit in the corner and read your letter. after the show the cloggers gathered around my friend ryan and talked about politics. they'd never met him before. I'd seen them, but never spoken to any of them. I liked being able to sit in the corner in silence, but that's not ryan's sort of thing. I tried to turn my head just enough to indicate that I was enraptured with the painting nearest me, and no attempt should be made to include me in the conversation. I get nervous having the types of conversations that people have when talking is just a primitive form of brushing one's hair and shaving one's face. it didn't work and I painfully stumbled through the delicate factory of facts and demographics, paging listlessly through insignificances for the most barren and uninviting. I feel stupid and incapable after such conversations, wondering how anyone benefits from such a thing other than to curtail a certain bit of restlessness that infects the vocal chords from time to time. it can be terribly boring. to find someone of varying capabilities, using facts only as quaint details to fortify a friendship bred on the expansive premise of what it means to be a human being--that is unique, indeed. why facts? why now? I often wonder, but this indeterminate smile suggests that in this case, it is different. [...] I tell them fine, though I really have no idea. I went to school at hamline university, wanting to be a writer and finding that in the collected faculty of the academics there was little knowledge of writing. there were a few scholars who used words as a means to convey various sciences, but no writers. strangely, few were even grammarians, or so limited in their scope that I learned only of the comma splice and dangling preposition. I worked two jobs through much of my academic life and quit school three times. I still have not graduated, and am only just now shedding the vacant fatigue that comes with seventy hours a week of commitments. that might be a bit too melodramatically tinged­I should say, "I was confused." I do not know how to dance. I have dreamt that one day I will have a lover who will teach me, barefoot, and with no one watching. I cherish the sound of bare feet and the intimacy of only a sliver of light through the blinds. I shook jim's hand and forgot to tell him my name. I'm always doing that. for halloween I'm going to be invisible. this is getting especially long and uninteresting, so I will end abruptly.