---
title: 'an open letter to death'
date: "2005-10-24 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

i watch druids move in the high cathedrals, reading poetry manuals and debating to feel. in my dreams i am there, selecting verbs from a trunk of inaction and snickering at the inelegant machinations down below. i read the words, fresh off of my dreaming hand, and wake up remembering only the shape that they took, the color of the ink, and the flicker of the candle as it shadows my brow and makes my pen dissolve in an irregular line from scratch to darkness. in my dream, an overdue wife speaks softly into my prison cell, "you keep fucking up." it grows between my eyes, in the back of my skull, and i can only think in foggy ruminations and wince, knowing that i will have soon forgotten and the parchment will run dry. the skeleton in my cell sneers and i know the words that died on his lips, "i told you so." i can feel them sinking into me like the chill of winter's first night and a worn out sun. i can feel it, playful, as i'm lowered into the ground and dug up moments later with the apologetic words, "oh, nevermind." the air of the high cathedrals is heavy and stale, belonging instead to the murky underworld where strangers hold hands and pray that the other will die first. i begin an open letter to death and an overdue wife. i begin to think in unintelligible tears. i begin to scatter pieces of my letter around the cell, stooping to carefully place bits in the exact disorder of the skeleton's wish, of his dream immemorial. the overdue wife stands high and mighty, leaning back on her heels and puffing her chest out. her hands are balled and resting magnetically against her tense hips, held taut by spread legs begging stability and permanence--a bulwark against the rage of time's self destructive ode. she is statuesque; she is momentary. i'm too busy to think beyond my hands and i can feel the frantic of an itch and a drop of sweat. i'm too busy for it. i spread out my diction and the skeleton rears back and laughs from his empty belly at my meager accumulation. i have almost nothing. "the skeleton has more with his unhinged jaw," the overdue wife slurs with crooked lips and contempt. i wake up and dial four numbers before thinking better of it, pressing clear, and readying myself for another day. who needs to hear about my boring nightmares?