---
title: "a collection of thoughts: part xvi"
date: "2008-04-19 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Life', 'Running']
tags: 
---

I noticed something strange about runners today: when they put their hands on their hips and stop running it means that the change is both planned and temporary. It's like a signal that says, "I could keep running, but my plan was to stop! and I will surely start again soon!" Runners who pull up, stop running, and fail to put their hands on their hips do not give that same impression. They simply appear to have stopped because they can no longer run. Though I've never been astute enough to do it, I'm sure that people take advantage of this system, feigning strategy when in reality they're just tired. Unfortunately there isn't such a system for bicycling. I could benefit from such convenience while slogging along with my 38mm hybrid tires on my crosscheck. 

Excuses are excellent. For instance, I was at the grocery store buying milk earlier in the day. The woman at the register was completely ignoring me (she was THE SUPERVISOR and clearly pissed off that she had to open a register), instead gossiping with steve the cart man. The price of my milk was $6.18. I handed her a ten dollar bill. She started to hand me $6.18 in change. "I should only get three dollars and some change," I told her. She condescendingly explained that my bill was $6.18 and I had handed her a ten dollar bill before realizing that she had made a mistake. Rather than admit her mistake, however, she exclaimed, "Well, they've put a five dollar bill in with the ones! Unbelievable!" She proceeded to open the register, returning the single five dollar bill that she'd clearly taken from its proper place with two bills from the ones place. She scoffed again and handed me the three bills. I had $0.18 in my hand in addition to the three bills. I should have had $0.82 but I was tired of the situation and decided to eat my losses and move on. Irritating woman. 

It's amusing how differently weather predicting outlets interpret the weather, even that which is occurring right now. For instance, one place is reporting that it is 48, the wind is from the ENE at 15mph, and it is raining, while the other is saying that it is 41 degrees, the wind is from the north at 5mph, and it is not raining. They were updated within a few minutes of each other. Looking outside, I'd guess that they're each incorrect about 1-2 pieces of information.

I've been incredibly busy lately, trying to juggle 48-50 hours of work per week, extra ride time in the morning, and marathon training. Of these endeavors, marathon training has been the worst. I still have difficulty breathing and the rapid increase in miles is starting to show itself in the form of minor injuries. During my third week of having bronchitis I was almost certain this was where I would end up­underprepared and facing a choice between injury and not running. It is now the sixth week since the illness started and that has become a very real choice. The minor injuries that I'm accumulating could become much worse if I continue to push blindly forward. This is why I started training in January. I knew that I needed a very gradual increase, no more than a 20% increase in mileage each month, if I was going to be successful. I'm going to take a little bit of time off from running in hopes of clearing up some of these injuries and then reassess my risk/reward analysis.
