---
title: 'recap'
date: "2009-08-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

I don't feel right today. I suddenly cannot form s sounds. I focus on my tongue. it seems to be doing everything correctly, but for some reason that sound comes out incorrectly. people have been getting hit by bats while they ride their bicycles. everyone is angry, discontent. wordless. I feel alienated and ugly. complaining. I dislike that even more. hollow. I sit on the floor and tap my knuckles against the hardwood. it is the distant, vacant sound of my thoughts being pressed into the earth. raise and lower the chair. unable to find a comfortable relation to the keyboard. it ebbs and flows, and sometimes I think I feel less substantive when things are good, because I know that energies will shift and I will be left to claw. now I am drinking very warm tea. I have decided to momentarily be convinced that my malady is purely physical: I am ill. my throat is convincingly sore, and my propensity for sleep, while normally vigorous, has become almost unmanageable. I don't feel right today. but it is an affliction of the body and not the spirit. it is. now it is morning and I am exhausted. my make believe illness has turned into nothing more than aching wisdom teeth. they are swollen and have become the first contact point between my upper and lower jaw. I sit here with my jaw slightly loose. compensate. afternoon. it is hot. sticky. goditsawful. this weather can fuck off. ebb and flow. it's getting wilder, less controllable. one moment frantic and the next ready to collapse from a lack of stimulation. my central nervous system is deteriorating. losing the ability to form certain letters, make certain motions. today as I was riding home from work I happened upon a person I vaguely new. chatted. I was riding my xtracycle. pushing hard because you cannot simply say, "well, have a good ride then. I'm going to ride slower." I am at the computer now. quiet again. exploding periodically with bursts of words, playful, exuberant. not necessarily taken seriously. I stopped at the grocery store to pick up a few things. uptown. there was a man wearing girl jeans with one gigantic pant roll. six to eight inches. maybe that is the new thing. it used to be 2-3 rolls of 2-3 inches. numerical symmetry. chrome messenger bag. balding. he must have been in his thirties. forties? I don't know. given my age, my grumpiness seems almost disproportionate. too serious. not fun. etc. as I approached the registers there were carts lined into the aisles. people waiting, biding their time. everyone was terrified of the self checkout. I went for it. I've done it before, and while it was inefficient, it was better than waiting in line behind ten families of hipsters (one day that will be the "h" word and the world will look back on me with disgust). the scale was broken. after each item it told me that I hadn't placed the item in the bag. please wait for approval. fuck. fuck that. I was nearly insane by the time that I had everything in a bag, and I'd done two things that I never do: used plastic bags, and bagged things haphazardly. by the time I got home the bread was smashed and the tomatoes were hanging out of my freeloader.

I'm drinking coffee now. taunting the oppressive warmth of the walls pushing in on me. why why why?

sweating profusely. not wearing underwear. feeling trashy and stupid. tomorrow morning I will go for a "long" run. I have only six weeks until the twin cities marathon and I'm not at all prepared. it's not that important. if I'm not ready I won't run. losing my entry fee will be the worst part, but I'm sure that I can get over that. I'll pretend it went to something useful but intangible. the glow of the moonlight through cracks in the face.

now I have too much energy. I am planning my route for tomorrow. I want to run now. I thought about it briefly, but it's still too hot. instead I will wake up shortly after dawn tomorrow and try to get in ten miles before it gets too unpleasant. too much coffee. I'm going to be up late.