---
title: "new blinds: part I"
date: "2007-10-29 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I woke up somewhat dizzy this morning. Imagine this: I have a window just to the right of my bed as you sleep in it. The window faces the south, but the barren wasteland behind the apartment allows the perfect clearing for the sun to bend its way in from the east. Several weeks ago my blinds fell off of the wall. I stacked them neatly in the corner and waited for the replacements to arrive from the building angels. During this time I grew accustomed to waking up as the sun did. At a certain point in its leveling out in the sky I would pop my eyes open and feel that, indeed, it was the perfect time to begin my day. I'm generally an early riser so it wasn't very far off from the time that I would wake up anyway, but at first there was something infuriating about the will that was exerted over me each morning. As time passed I grew dependent on the intoxicating ease of it. I rarely even glanced at the clock when I woke up, instead looking outside to see what the morning sky had to tell me. Two days ago I installed the new blinds. The past two mornings I have risen unpredictably, unsure whether I had exceeded the logical limits of my night's rest. My head has been foggy or dizzy and I have fumbled with the coffee pot as if it were some undiscovered part of a woman. In short, I have been stricken senseless by the climate change of my sleep. The obvious solution would be to sleep with the blinds raised. How does one go about that? Perhaps by purely sentimental measures it is a choice, but in reality it is a choice that is unchoosable. I cannot simply say goodnight, raise my blinds, and fall asleep. People will think that I have gone mad. So I will weather the storm like a bad night's drinking, waking up, rubbing my face with the heel of my hand and hoping that a nice warm shower might return my senses to me. good morning: part I From this point on I shall never be the same. I shall not laugh or smile or enjoy the same whimsical things that I once did. See, long ago I accidentally deployed a notion. Three to five years passed and it left me--yet, we never went anywhere. It is notable that upon any degree of inspection I will reflexively unveil a wealth of information about my unsound but vaguely linear mind. For instance, a quiver of her lip might induce a shared trance, explained pensively with the words, "From this point on I shall never be the same." She would only nod in her way, never betraying any evidence that might be later used to sully the purity of her intent, mistakenly believing that good maintains a consistency in its form. If it were expressed in colors it might be said that she always thought good to look mostly aquamarine. I contradicted this notion by lewdly exposing myself. In doing so I converted our commodious currency to a balance between purity and antipathy. This is perhaps a cynical narration, and should be replaced with something more dogmatic. However, apart from this capacity for experimentation welled a blending of deeply felt passions. I had unwittingly become my own collateral against our collective poison. I was no longer unfeeling, simply hungry. "Is this genuine despair?" I wondered. "Is it not peculiar," she finally asked, "that the most influential people in our lives are often there for the least of them?" It was not in a general way that she obviated she was referring to the two of us; instead, she only stared glassily. It occurred to me suddenly and I spoke hastily­"Yes, `good morning' may have only been in our conversation twice or three times altogether. Now if we were to utter it it would only seem a heartless parody." I consider it now and see that we had already become statues, frozen in our respective places without any agency or desire to recommend ourselves to another way of thinking. We immortalised the pain and our person. Rather than aquamarine we were a deep red--the sort which bubbles slowly to the surface and begins its appearance as discontinuous speckling. Later I walk up the stairs, my footfall predictably different on each step. The carpet worms its way between my bare toes, illuminating the coarse ridges that have grown in my feet. I repeatedly mouth the words "good morning", wondering that I should have uttered them so few times with any direction or sincerity. It seems that I have often said "goodnight"--often enough in fact that it has become one word in my mind whereas good and morning remain separate. From this point on I shall be exactly as I am. Quieter. I shall speak less and linger more frequently. While becoming intolerant I will become much more tolerable. When it is evening I shall think it morning.