---
title: 'bicycle gearing'
date: "2010-02-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

stock bicycle gearing is one of the things that really bothers me in life. I try to explain to people that even a fit rider is not well served by most stock gearing setups. let's take an entry level specialized tricross. it comes equipped with a 52/42/30 triple crankset and a 12-25 cassette. first experiment: arithmetic mean. let's assume an average cadence of 90rpm. this is not a particularly high cadence in the world of cycling. in this case the mean value is 17.54mph, with a range from 8.7mph to 31.3mph. now let's assume that the rider prefers to spin around 100rpm. then the mean value becomes 19.49mph, with a range from 9.6mph to 34.8mph. how many people are taking home a bike like this and averaging almost 20mph, or pedaling faster than 30mph? I have the occasional road bike ride where I average 20mph, but it's a rare feat even going out on a purpose built road bike with the intent to EXERCISE. the tricross is a bike that is built for commuting, touring and cyclocross. it just doesn't make any sense. switching back to the 90rpm model, the top gear in the 42 ring offers a speed of 25.3mph. at 100rpm you are going over 28mph...IN THE MIDDLE RING. eh? how many riders need a gear that allows them to ride faster than 28mph? not very many. however, at the low end of things, how many people using the bike for touring need a gear that allows them to comfortably ride slower than 8.7mph? probably quite a few. sure, you can power up a hill in a gear that's too large, especially in this area where hills don't often extend past half a mile, but it is inefficient and, in my opinion, uncomfortable. if I'm going to have twenty-four gears on my bicycle it doesn't seem unreasonable to expect that some of them are going to be suitable for riding slowly up hills. for this reason I am exceptionally excited about the rise of mountain double cranksets. I think for most people a 26 or 28 paired with a 40 or 42 would be a perfect gear range that allows both speed and climbing efficiency without adding a bunch of unnecessary rings in the front. okay, that's all.

