---
title: 'I am ready for spring'
date: "2011-02-03 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Life
---

I feel unusually aggressive just now, or irritable...or aimlessly annoyed. Sunday was wonderful. Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday were decidedly unpleasant with long work hours, slow commutes, and interactions that ranged from bizarre to hateful. I don't drink a lot of beer in the winter because it's too difficult to acquire. There are certain sacrifices a person makes to live without a car. Last night, however, I decided that I would stop at the liquor store on my way home. The thought of unwinding to beer and dinner seemed delightful. I have been commuting by bicycle in the winter for a long time, having ridden in temperatures colder than -20F, so even though it was just below zero with a stiff west wind, I wasn't concerned about the additional stop. After purchasing my beer I returned to my bike and realized that I didn't have a plan for carrying it home. On my fatbike I have little means for carrying things. I fucked around with various arrangements for a few minutes until I realized that it was not going to happen. I was less than a mile from home so I decided that I would just walk, carrying the beer in my hands. Since I use pogies on my bike, I had only a thin pair of wool liner gloves. My hands started to get cold. In hindsight, I should have gone back in the liquor store and acquired a bag or a box. I didn't. Instead I started walking towards home. After only a few blocks I realized that my left hand (carrying a four pack of Surly beer) had gone from being uncomfortable to being almost completely numb. 

*This is a bad situation*. *You need to do something NOW. *I started jogging with a four pack of guinness balanced on the bike and the Surly now in my right hand. I hadn't gone more than a few strides when two of the cans of Surly dropped to the ground. *FUCK*. I picked them up, cradled the entire mess in the crook of my left arm and began running faster. I made it to my front door and fumbled with my keys for what seemed like an eternity. It was nearly impossible to make precise movements with my frozen fingers. Finally I was inside. I was trembling. It was not from anything physical. I knew that I had acted quickly enough to escape even the slightest frostnip. No. I was afraid. I was freaking out. I was furious with myself and with the stupid, fucking weather. It was the most dangerous situation I've been in all winter and it occurred only because of a series of stupid choices. It is easy to stay warm at zero degrees. I've spent entire days outside at that temperature. On this occasion I was probably only minutes away from a very desperate situation, and all because I was lazy, stupid and *underequipped* for the situation.  
  
Which is to say that I am ready for spring. By February I am always ready for spring. I enjoy the seasons changing and the effect that it has on my life and habits. I move slowly in the winter. I see things that I would not otherwise see. I engage with my environment in new and interesting ways. I dabble in wintersports. I adapt summersports to the winter. I appreciate the beauty of glistening snow, the rush of the spring melt, the density of the air and the pristine beauty of sunlight bending its way through dangling icicles. It is beautiful, precious, fragile and inspiring. There is serenity in going on a run and having the only the rhythmic squeaking of shoes on packed snow. I love watching the ducks near Minnehaha and the water that looks clean enough to drink. But I'm always ready for it to be done before it is. Six more weeks and we leave for Hawaii. Six. Whether winter is over or not, it will end there for me.  
  
I thought perhaps this would be the year that I did not move. It will not. Everything is too expensive. It's silly to pay so much to be here. The final "straw" is perhaps the revelation that kale is exactly 200% as expensive at lunds as it is at the wedge. Quinoa is 150% as expensive. The list goes on. Now, sure, I could just go the wedge on my bike, but my rent is 150% as expensive because I am located in a spot that makes Lunds the nearest grocery store. Why pay more to make everything less convenient? So once again, I will be moving. I am contemplating either moving a bit to the north or a bit to the east. We'll see.