---
title: '(how to whine)'
date: "2005-11-18 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

it’s 2:30 in the morning and i can’t sleep. it’s too warm in my apartment and too cold outside. it’s one of those nights that’s ripe for tragedy, for disaster, but this time the disaster is that there won’t be a disaster. there will only be those little noises in my apartment that remind me that except for a few things scattered here and there, i am alone. it’s not the desperate, clingy loneliness of youth. it’s not that moment when you’re eighteen years old and you suddenly need the girl who works in the video department with you. no. it’s not that at all. it’s that resolute loneliness of adulthood when all that you want is to do it all over again; it’s being stuck with all of the voices lingering in your head with their final goodbyes and the last look of the ones you barely knew who just drifted away. i remember some of the names--tammy, shannon, meghan, meagan, laura, laura, jeremiah, sheila, mike, ramon, juli, aaron, erin, bo, b.j., joe, noel, enrique, rolando, dustin, keith, anne, jamison, jesse, stephanie, katy, kym phan, krista, jessica, jessica, ryan, dave, joey, christine, sarah, sara, and a thousand that i’ve forgotten. they were all people i’ve known who are probably fast asleep right now, not sitting in an ugly orange chair thinking about the names of people he’s known. two days ago i received a myspace message from a person called "steph". i started to think about names and how many of them now have a forever color, a forever pitch, an aura that damns and saints all at once. the thing becomes untouchable and i rue the day that i have to name my next plant, or my next special possession that will end up in the dumpster. i think that’s why people have been naming their children such odd names recently. an object, a word from another language, a number, a symbol, a name misspelled--they want to escape the dreaded pigment of all of the histories that have wound and unwound all at once; they want to cheat death just this once. today at the hardware store i played with a yellow lab. i left the store a dizzied man, obsessive in miniature installments of condensed dreamology. i was in the yard with my wife in the suburbs picking up the morning newspaper. the sunlight danced gently without showing itself, but i could see it everywhere--on every object, person, and on my playful yellow lab. it’s the kind of love that i need. it’s the kind of dream that would do me good to wax on about. i look outside and eight feet away there is another apartment complex. in between there are pipes and receding grass that’s begun to show its dirty underbelly, only slightly obscured fall’s piss soaked snow. i almost fell down in the parking lot. some days i check my mail and if there’s nothing important i leave it in the mailbox. i don’t want to deal with it. i don’t want to see it. i don’t want another thing that i have to figure out, deduce, and reconcile before i can waste away into a television addled corpse. i maintain composure by running, screaming, dancing, and not moving at all. i maintain composure by being the least important thing on the face of the earth. i am a blade of grass, immemorial. i deduce deception and all that i can do is draw a smiley face on my jeans while no one is looking. i glance at it during class and it makes me sad. i spent twenty minutes on my bicycle in the middle of the night, pedaling until i could feel my heart beating in my neck. i’m begging to explode.