---
title: "perception of distance: part I"
date: "2008-01-13 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I have not written anything interesting in the new year. It is as if my mind went purposely blank at the beginning of the year--all elements stricken from the record without consideration of their desirability. I have thus slipped into a state of being perpetually unimpressed, while simultaneously feigning that even the slightest efforts and effects have left the greatest of impressions. Excitable but distant--the ultimate expression of confidence and acclimation. While doing this I have dreamed intensely, awaking in wonderment at the bizarre divide that separates this hyperbolic self from the purely reptilian creature that I have become on the surface. My movements, consequently becoming my object of curiosity, have proved slight but derisive. In this way I make a naïve attempt to understand myself. It strikes me that those people closest to me would not recognize the movements that I make in my dreams. Always abrupt and reckless. Never tentative or restrained. The bodies of human beings, in sexuality and in death, have not startled me in that severed unreality. During my runs I try to think of things to write about. I have constructed a plot, divided into segments, rationalized the inclusion of those two or three lost loves--all of this produced in ink and filed away in a cabinet for later use. While I am running I try to think of less important things to write about, or ways in which I might creatively obscure those things that I wish to write about but cannot say knowing that on the mere unlikelihood of a whim, I might have reason for embarrassment or shame. I obfuscate. I dictate in my mind topical arrangements of strategies for the projection of self improvement. After all, I have the time. I can wake up at 2am and do anything that I want. When I am looking directly into someone else's eyes I can be thinking about what they are seeing. I can study their reflection as it spreads back across their own face and they ashamedly yet unwittingly reveal their opinion of me. I can exercise my temper, forcing it into an ebb and flow that mimics something from nature. But these ways of grasping at a voice that has gone quiet are merely exercises. In the end I must simply wait for it to return, and hope that when it does there might be someone thoughtful enough to listen to it. 

I saw something interesting while I was running yesterday--a snow pony. It was constructed in a residential neighborhood on a weird island situated at the convergence of three roads. It was at least as tall as me, if not taller. By the time I had processed the information I was at least a block away and didn't bother going back to get more information. Since the amount of snow on the ground is not more than a few inches, and even at its peak was no more than nine inches, I imagine that the snow was gathered from many, many places. Alternatively, the snow pony could have innards made of something other than snow. 

I went to the trail that extends from my old apartment very nearly to my new apartment. I remember walking that trail, thinking and waiting. Something, some idea, some connection seemingly lingering in a darkened glow from its unlikely urban refuge--revisited vistas of interminable inter(course|change). I walked and thought about her and she and it and they. I compared my footprints to those left just before me. Yesterday someone with very small feet traveled my path at a scintillating pace, taking strides not befitting feet twice her size. My frightened lover scattered into the nightened woods. Again and again our beating, pulsing feet sharing that same plane without intersecting. Studying the evidence for strengths and weaknesses, ways in which one might have become better acclimated than the other. Having been thus accused of redundancy I can claim this: distances change if not perception. 

The winter works its way back into my mind. I think in halves. I dream intensely. I speak clearly if not eloquently or evocatively. I dull my mind with continuously revisited stupors. I test my senses, trying to elicit from them some hint that within me there is regret or willingness, when in truth I am unsure of anything except that in this life of halves some are used up and others have grown pale. Milky white insignias of breast on breast. I see now, everyone and everything existing in gradations of softness. Nothing--not bone, muscle, enamel or solitude--being as hard or as stalwart as that which encases our perpetually halved selves.