---
title: 'turned into ghosts'
date: "2010-06-03 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
---

It is appropriate that this morning while carelessly operating a folding knife the locking mechanism let loose and the blade cut decisively into my index finger. My mind immediately identified it as a very bad thing and I threw the knife to the ground before my waking mind comprehended what had happened. In spite of my quick movements the blade already glistened with blood. I felt the drops moving to the underside of my finger and then falling to the floor, making a soft sound that might have been muted had it not been in a nearly empty room. I began to panic. My hands trembled. I wondered briefly if it could have been from blood loss... before acknowledging that only seconds had passed and it would have taken a hand grenade to lose that much blood in mere seconds.* Don't panic*, I whispered. I scanned the room for things that I could use to stop the bleeding. A piece of a sock and electrical tape? I was about to implement this solution when I realized that I had a first aid kit not more than twelve inches from the electrical tape. *Much better.* The blood was making quite a mess so I grabbed a sock in the interim and held it to the wound. It quickly turned the sock red. I had never seen such a wound on my own body. I wrapped a liberal amount of gauze around my finger and then taped it while consulting the internet on *how do I know if I need stitches?* After a few minutes I peeled back the soaked gauze and peered into the wound, almost gagging at the sight of it. However, the clotting process was underway and after wiping away the blood with an alcohol wipe I found that it was not as deep as I had imagined. It was on the top side of the index finger and I could not see the bone. Good, right? There is not a lot of tissue on that part of the finger.  
  
I began the agonizing process of cleaning it with soap. I have never felt like I've done a good job of cleaning a cut, but it is not from lack of effort. Tenacity? Perhaps. After the pain convinced me that the soap was doing its job I rinsed it a final time and decided that I would walk to the grocery store for Neosporin. I opted for the more expensive branded product as it contained two extra ingredients. I have no idea what they do. I wonder if someone in a boardroom knew that I would look at the package and be impressed with the superior number of unknown ingredients. I cleaned it a final time, and then went to the internet to find out that Beth is in a relationship with someone else. The wound now made sense.  
  
Of course, I ultimately "ended" our relationship, but what I ended was a situation (a situation which she later acknowledged was bad). I did not end a *person*. It simply does not happen like that with me, especially when it was a person with whom I'd shared such intimacy. Eight weeks? Seriously? I couldn't believe it. I was furious. I am normally much better at containing my emotions but I made no secret that I thought it was disgraceful, especially so since the way that I found out about it was like this: she wanted to meet me for coffee so that she would know that her feelings for this person were real and not simply a response to our situation. So, she wanted to evaluate me and ensure that she was *moving forward. *Fuck that. A resounding, FUCK THAT. What a cruel thing to do to a person. To recap, the sequence of events went as such: I "ended" our relationship; a couple weeks passed and she thanked me for ending it, eliminating all ambiguity and defining it as *simply bad* for everyone; a few more weeks pass and she asks if I will meet her for coffee so that she can be sure she's doing the right thing in her new relationship. Am I wrong to feel like I got screwed? It's bad enough to be in a relationship that ends, but to have the full accountability thrust on me while she exhibits that I meant nothing to her? That is cruel. That is inhuman.  
  
Eventually I will move forward. In a way I guess that I've already undertaken the project. But it will take time. More fucking time than a few weeks, because she *meant something to me*. I spend much of my time wondering what I could have done to better facilitate a happy environment. She told me later that she wasn't happy, that Clementine wasn't happy. I knew that as it happened. She pretended that she didn't. To read her words about "permanence" now seems almost comical. How self righteous she was while telling me that what I was doing betrayed the permanence of our relationship. Yet, what I did was a response to a situation and not a person. She will be in my mind for a long time into the future. When I think about her she will be *her*. It will take a long time for someone to take *her* place, yet in a few short weeks someone has taken mine. I write this in hopes that it will rid me of the anger that I am feeling. I do not want to feel like this and I do intend to revel in this resentment. *It is what it is.* I need to let go of it and accept that she isn't the person I thought she was. The person I knew wouldn't have been able to simply replace me in a few short weeks. With that person I shared a bond that would make it feel like an illness to be next to anyone else. Maybe I invented her. Maybe she was always a person who devoured each moment as it stood, without any relevance being placed upon the one before or after. For that I suppose I am/was/will be a fool. Maybe the real person was in the past, and in spite of her devotion time has eroded all and made us into ghosts.