---
title: "the holiday shitlist"
date: "2008-12-28 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Last year I reported on my ten favorite products from the previous year. I intend to do that again this year, but decided that I'd warm up with the ten most disappointing products from 2008. This doesn't necessarily mean that they are the ten worst. It is simply an honest assessment of the gap between what I expected and what I received. Since I had varying levels of excitement or disinterest for each product, it's purely subjective and often petty. 

- 1.) **SRAM I-motion 9.** I really wanted to like this hub. I mean...I really, really wanted to like this hub. Much like the brooks saddle it fit perfectly with both my levels of grouchiness and eurofetishism. However, the majority of the gears were unreasonably loud. I've ridden internally geared hubs before, and it was much worse than the charming ticking sound that tells you the hub is running smoothly. It often felt like I had a swarm of bees in my brain. I tried to convince myself and others that it wasn't a big deal, a worthy sacrifice for simplicity and dependability, but it wasn't true. It was hideous. Additionally, it shifted like shit under load. With the absolutely silent and easy to shift Alfine as its competition I cannot imagine this hub will stick around very long. The only advantages seem to be an extra gear, even gear spacing (the shimano hubs have truly bizarre gear jumps), and a user friendly quick disconnect. 
- 2.) **Shimano chains.** The stock CN5600 chain on my La Cruz was worn out after less than 500 miles. WTF?! Even riding in the winter my SRAM PC 1050 (a similarly priced SRAM chain) was good for twice as many miles. This says nothing of the fact that the SRAM chain can be joined quickly and confidently with a master link while the Shimano chain requires equal bits of cajoling and luck. 
- 3.) **Salsa La Cruz.** I shudder even now at the thought of this bike making the list, but unfortunately it did. It started with the rim strips­--a $1700 bike with rim strips that belonged on a single wall steel rim. The bike that we put on the floor had double flats within a couple of hours. Knowing this, I changed mine out immediately. Then there was the gearing that was optimized for a road racing bike. Seriously, 39-25 as your low gear on a bike that will be used either offroad or commuting with knobby tires? Stupid. Then there were the eyelets. For some malicious reason they didn't put rack eyelets on the seatstays. If the bike was a straight up cyclocross race rig I would understand and think myself foolish for expecting them, but it's not. Their description: "The La Cruz cyclocross frameset is your ticket to the mixed bag world of dirt and pavement...and anything in between." Makes it sound versatile, eh? It's not. Then there was the rear disc caliper placement. I foamed at the mouth, begging everyone around me why they didn't put the caliper inside the rear triangle to ease the already difficult process of mounting a rack. "It's not possible." "It's stupid." etc. But then the Fargo comes out the next year with the disc mount exactly where I wanted it. Finally, it handled terribly. The fork shimmied even without a load, but once I finally did manage to mount a rack it shimmied *like crazy*. So here's where it's at: the bike is designed only for cyclocross, except that aspiring racers won't buy it because it's heavy and they're worried that just in case they get invited to a uci event they won't be able to race it. To Salsa's credit, the following year they came out with exactly the bike that I should have bought instead: the Fargo. Unfortunately we're no longer a Salsa dealer so I had to make my own Fargo out of a Karate Monkey frame. It's a great bike. 
- 4.) **Shimano hydraulic disc brakes.** My bad experience with these brakes actually happened last year, but I continue to see the same thing happen to my coworkers. While they work very well in warm weather, as soon as it is even a little bit cold they turn to shit. They start rubbing, the lever throw becomes only a few mm, and they fail to stop. Shimano told us to try another company's fluid (!!), but even that provided only a marginal improvement. In the end, they just don't work when the temperature is below 40F. 
- 5.) **Surly chainrings.** Gasp. Okay. breathe. Yeah, a Surly product--­even one that I will continue to buy­--made it on to the shitlist. Well, I've owned three Surly stainless steel chainrings now and not one of them is even remotely close to round. It's not the spider either as a.) they've gone on two different cranks, and b.) other chainrings can achieve perfect roundness on the same spider. I've used every Sheldon Brown trick in the book to try to get them centered, but they're just too malformed. In the end I just had to accept the droopy spot. For the price, and since almost all of them are bound for singlespeed rigs, I'd expect better, but it's surly so I forgive them unconditionally. 
- 6.) **Specialized armadillo elite folding tires.** These tires are slow, seem entirely incapable of preventing flats, and cost a fortune. Rather than swapping them out for the winter road bike trainer season, I've just left the rear so as to ensure that I never have to ride these on the road again. On the plus side, productively destroying them will provide extra motivation to get on the trainer over the winter. 
- 7.) **Topeak pannier drybags.** After spending the better part of a year defending these bags against people who claimed that they fell off, I was forced to concede that the locking mechanism is both poorly designed and not serviceable. Periodic lubrication improved performance, but they still fell off at least once a week. 
- 8.) **Princeton Tec Swerve.** The idea behind this taillight is brilliant: two bulbs with unique beam angles, an easy to use toggle switch, and a variety of mounting options all from a company who specializes in lights. What could go wrong? The first problem occurred when I brushed my hand against the light while moving my bike. The face fell off. Weird, I thought, and snapped it back into place. Like many lights it has a slot to insert a coin or screwdriver to pry off the face. However, I quickly found that I could pull the light apart with almost no effort and nothing in the pry slot. I thought my unit might be defective, but after checking a few others I found that it was a design flaw. I could deal with this problem. A cleverly placed rubber band provided the extra security that I needed. The second problem occurred just hours ago. When I reached my destination I found that the light was stuck on. Toggling the switch did nothing and I was forced to remove the batteries. Same story on the ride home except that one of the two bulbs would spastically flash for a few moments, go solid for several seconds, turn off for a random amount of time, and then repeat the cycle. Again, the switch did nothing to alter or deter this strange behavior. 
- 9.) **Surly stainless steel seat binder.** Oh fuck! No! Not another Surly product! Yep, it's true. These things accurately simulate what it's like to be riding a carbon fiber frame and seatpost with a yield strength of roughly the force it takes to penetrate the skin of an overripe plum. In short: the fuckers slip. I swapped mine out with its still available and much superior predecessor. 
- 10.) **HED Ardennes wheels.** In just over a thousand miles I destroyed bearings, both front and rear, and the freehub body. Even typically unreliable Mavic wheels don't require such attention in such a short amount of time. Additionally, the wheels flexed dramatically under load. I had difficulty adjusting my cyclocomputer so that it would both a.) be within range of the sensor, and b.) not flex into the sensor when I got out of the saddle. This complaint is somewhat nullified by the fact that it's a 1400 gram clincher wheelset. What did I expect? Nonetheless, I'd have been sorely disappointed if I hadn't been able to repair these and sell them for as much as I paid for the wheels+repairs.