---
title: 'hilo marathon'
date: "2011-03-30 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Running
tags: ['Hawaii', 'marathon']
---

I'm back from hawaii. It's midnight here. After being on or between planes for over fifteen hours, I've spent the afternoon and evening alternating between napping and walking around like a zombie, utterly perplexed by the most ordinary tasks. Rather than go to bed, I'm going to start writing about hawaii. *The marathon. *For now I'll skip the days leading up to it. I woke up at 3:30am and gorged on fruit from the farmer's market. Wandering the rows of delicious food the previous day was one of the highlights of the trip. I ate a couple papaya, a mango, part of a star apple, a banana and half a loaf of banana bread. We were on the shuttle by 4:45am. Marathons start early in hawaii. I wasn't disappointed by this for two reasons: I hadn't fully acclimated to the time change or to the midday temperatures & sunshine. I did two short runs in honolulu and at the end of each I was sure that ten more minutes would have resulted in collapsing on the sidewalk and panting like an overweight husky in the rain forest. The bus ride was short. We were soon at a community center, stumbling around in the dark with a few hundred other runners. Finally we lined up at the start. I told michelle earlier that if she wanted to run faster she should just tell me so that I wouldn't be tempted to keep up with her. I had no intention of trying to run a sub-four hour marathon. The first couple miles were entirely downhill. People blasted by us. I wanted my first mile to be about the same speed as my twentieth, so I held back a bit. A couple minutes into the race michelle told me that she was going off on her own. I completely understood. It took restraint, but I said goodbye and watched her quickly disappear into the sea of people.  
  
I had borrowed maria's forerunner, so I had a plan--start at 9:45min/mile and speed up gradually after the five mile mark. This would give me time to comfortably get some distance out of the way, save energy for the last half (where a lot more time can be lost than gained in the first half), and assess how my body had adapted to the heat. Once we started to hit some uphills I began passing many of the people who passed me in the first couple miles. It's startling how hard people go early in marathons. I cannot imagine how awful it would be to find yourself at mile five having to walk an uphill because you ran *really fucking fast* down the first hill. In any case, my plan was going well. I felt great and I was slowing increasing my pace. Around mile eight I saw michelle's mom and aunt and slowed down enough to ask them how far ahead michelle was. *Three minutes*. Part of me hoped that I would catch her later in the race and we could run together, while another part of me hoped that she achieved her goal of beating her previous marathon time. Either way, I was thoroughly enjoying the first part of the course. It was hillier than I expected, but the reward was absolutely beautiful scenery. We ran across quaint little bridges, next to waterfalls, and through lush forest teeming with life. I was in love with the moment.  
  
I hit the half marathon mark around 2h4m. It was a good first half for me, especially considering that I wasn't really trying that hard. The beautiful part of the course was over as we wound our way through the hilo airport. Around mile fifteen I saw a shirt in the distance that looked like michelle's. I ran faster. As the course looped back on to itself, my suspicion was confirmed. *Keep running, wabeee. *She wasn't that far ahead so I ran faster for about a half mile until I caught up with her. *Hi you*. We ran together for a little while until I began creeping ahead. I turned around and ran back to her to make sure that she was okay. She didn't want any of my gooey-sweaty-hammergel and told me that she was fine, but that I should keep going. I was hesitant to leave her, but I did what I asked her to do earlier in the race. Sometimes you just need to run alone. I grabbed a clif bar from michelle's mom at mile eighteen. This was all that I needed. I knew that I was going to finish and that it would be a personal best time. *Just keep running*. I slowed down a bit in the last six miles, but I kept running. Only once did I stop to deliberately walk, and within no more than five paces a woman ran by and said, "c'mon man! we're almost there!" I started running again. Thank you mystery-woman. I ran to the finish where my friends were waiting for me. I feel like I should have a better story. Something more EPIC. This time I don't. This time everything went sort of how it was planned. It was still wonderful, life affirming experience. I love the atmosphere of a marathon. I love the people who run and all of the different reasons that they choose to run. I finished 65th out of 180 finishers in a time of 4:17:54.