---
title: 'almanzo part 1'
date: "2009-05-17 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

It was an unusual weekend. Rochester. Dirt road racing. Touring. Etc. We departed Thursday afternoon. Throughout the morning I added things to my load until my bike was unreasonably heavy. Too much food, not enough clothing, not the right clothing, the wrong type of shelter. I had planned a route to Cannon Falls where we'd spend the night before continuing on to Rochester the following morning. The idea was to have two consecutive easy days prior to racing hard on Saturday, then making the return trip in a single day on Sunday. It looked good on paper. As we worked our way towards Cannon Falls the haphazard route threatened to turn dangerous as shoulders disappeared and rush hour traffic poured forth as if from the bowels of hell. We zigged-zagged back to more familiar roads. We turned a forty mile route into a fifty-five mile route. Shit. As we set up camp the fourth member of our crew arrived: new guy Nate. He left two hours later than us and arrived thirty minutes after us. Shit. Fifteen miles and too much crap. He was a neat guy. Plays in a bagpipe band. Seems to have traveled just about everywhere in the world by bicycle. Pro-beer. The campground was ridiculous. RV parking lot. Tent spaces on a front lawn. Speedboats exploding nearby. It was a place to stay. I remember going to be early thinking, "what the fuck am I doing?"

I woke up the next morning to my tent shaking violently back and forth. I didn't want to wake up. It was windy, really fucking windy. I took my time packing my things. Made a cup of coffee. Disjointed conversations. A bit more comfortable now. Jeff attached his bike to his other bike. Yes. We were ready to roll. The plan for day two was a direct route along fifty-two, a four lane divided highway running between the Twin Cities and Rochester. It had a nice shoulder and would spare us the ineffective maneuvers of the previous day. After making an impromptu route through a field to the highway, we started south. Headwind. Massive fucking headwind. Within a couple of miles the headwind was joined by a climb that went on for a mile and a quarter. For Minnesota, that's a really long climb. We finally reached the top and were nearly knocked from our bikes by another blast of wind. This wouldn't change. The rest of the day consisted of struggling forward at eleven miles per hour, while exerting an alarming and unpleasant effort. Everyone struggled, but especially Jeff as he was trying to navigate with a giant sail attached to a (w)BOB(ly) trailer. We finally reached Pine Island, spirits broken, and followed the Douglas trail the rest of the way. The trail was sheltered and a bit downhill, so we made excellent time. When we arrived at the yard where we'd be camping I knew that I was in trouble: tired legs, a brutal and unexpected saddle sore, and a weather forecast that called for an even stronger wind the next day. I drank high life and tried to pretend it wasn't happening.