---
title: "I don't get it...what's transcendentalism?: part II"
date: "2007-11-23 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

This is how I ended my post last year: "I make believe that my own life will carry on so intricately and triumphantly." I began by saying, "I sat on a broken chair on the balcony, watching the sturdy structures become increasingly less so." It didn't matter the degree of precision to which my evaluations subscribed, only that in its resonance my voice was somehow recognizable. This year is different. I am, officially, now, finally, an adult. See, it began as fond mimicry. "Look at my eyes," I explained, "they are shaped from a vast sea of wage weathered skin. They fold and mass heroically. You could scarcely tell it was me if you weren't preinsistent on finding me!" I swallowed that last letter I wrote. It was not of any significance except that I decided from the outset that it would be a letter sent in poor taste. Now, as I was fairly unfamiliar with the fellow who would be receiving the letter, I was forced into the position of being liberal with content and interpretation. The real trick, though, was the vagaries by which I concealed the fact that I'd actually written to myself. I relied on horrifying sentence structure and punctuation to obfuscate any specific meaning that might betray my own investment in the letter. The return address I took from an envelope sent to me four years earlier by a high school acquaintance who was concerned that I had sunk into depression and drug abuse. It was coming together nicely. Now I only needed a motive. I had worked so diligently to ensure that everything would be carried out flawlessly and artlessly, but I had no particular reason for doing it. I thought back to a time when I was a child, or a changeling stuck somewhere between childhood and institutionalization. The person of influence was a woman I sincerely loathed, though I made no admission of this as I was unsure whether I loathed her as a result of connection or disconnection. The funny thing about relationships is how much you can hate someone for merely being too inaccessible and too disconnected, while not hating them at all for the ways in which you are or could be connected (certain incorrect grammatical practices I accept as "conventional", thus the notion that you are reading the thoughts of a child. I assure you that I am an adult). In any case, at that moment I decided that I would not trust anyone ever again. It was a rash decision and the people I did not inform secretly told me that its sustainability was next to nil. I assured their hideous, gloating eyes that I could do as I pleased. The only threat to my autonomy came in the fragility of my actual, physical being. Two years later I broke my foot and fell in love. And there was my motive. I chose an address out of the middle of the phone book. The man called himself a sophisticate and always stated his three unique names. I addressed the letter using two of his names and dropped it in the mail. A few days later he opened it and read: 

> I've thought about it a lot It sort of scares me I'm not even sure that It applies to me It might appall me no one seems to be able to exactly explain It to me and I cannot claim that I fully understand how to discern whether It is correct do you know anything about It that might help me to better understand my relation to It? please write back, the Savage (but fully an adult (therefore completely capable of making decisions so long as the answer is already apparent and the choices are not really options)).