---
title: "fireworks season: part I"
date: "2008-08-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

 It's fireworks season. I stay up late, grimacing, fighting my eyelids for just a few more minutes...god, let it end...let the noise stop and let me go to sleep. I sleep early. The only thing that lets me work fifty hours a week, ride my bike, run, and master-video-games, while maintaining a healthy sheen and charming disposition is: sleep. but alas, I dream, I pray, I invent variations of the same god whose pity might be more easily evoked. Still, there is the dull rumble, the incessant roar of thousands of fools swaying to their asymmetric internal help-me rhythms (coursing through me and finding me at each end hateful). Ha ha! (I almost called her this evening. I was within seconds) And soon the night sky will be poisoned by droplets of human machinery, illuminated with an unhealthy glow of every kind of indulgence. I am surprised that there are not orgy booths at the state fair. Or murder booths. Or suicide booths. Indulge! Indulge! Fuck consequences! Barter with yourself: IF I DRINK BOTTLED VITAMIN WATER TODAY I C AN GORGE MY FUC KING BRAINS OUT TOMORROW. Christ almighty, vitamin water and fireworks and all kinds of shit on a stick with industrial strength adhesive? If only these few stray things would appeal to my more vulgar senses, if only want of defeat did not coincide so necessarily and so recklessly with ambition. Some days I feel nothing but disgust for my fellow human beings, and then I think (as I thought this evening walking the aisles of the grocery store): each of these pitiful things has a unique voice, just like mine. Mine is no more special, profound or complex than any other. How little regard I have for these things of equal consequence! And oh god, how I do over-estimate myself! I have tried to take more of an interest in the lives of the people around me. I have been asking questions. I have always noticed that people drop hints when they want to talk about something. They will make a reference to something that requires context, begging with body and soul to contribute that context. When I want to talk about something I simply start talking. When dull eyes roll back into their skulls I ignore them and continue triumphantly. Lately though, I have tried to al ow people the opportunity to bore me to death with their mediocre lives, because I have begun to realize that my own life is no more colorful or splendid. It is a great favor of their affection that my own stories have any listeners. God I pray for sleep! What bitter insults not sleeping arouses! Still, I wonder sometimes what we do with the information that we get from each other. What did you do tonight? What did he do tonight? With whom have you been spending your time? What are they like? How much does it weigh? Is it fun to ride? It's as if we expect great variation in things that are essentially identical. The difference between a fast 200m sprint and a slow 200m sprint is less than 30 seconds. The difference between my mind and any other is measured in fractions of fractions. 
 
*** 

It is morning now. The fireworks were very late--­well past 11pm. I feel like there should be a law or city ordinance that requires them to complete their explosions by a reasonable hour in the evening. While I was waiting I finished reading Of Human Bondage. It has been a very long time since I've struggled so much to complete a book. Still, I mostly enjoyed it. Reading simply fell victim to other hobbies during the heart of the summer. As fall approaches I am sure that I will begin to read more and my mind will be more active. 

I am down almost fifteen pounds since the start of august. Strangely, I have been less active. My cycling miles are down, running is slightly increased, and weight lifting is down. Mostly I have just cleaned up my eating habits. With one of my coworkers on vacation the majority of the month, I have been working more hours, so I hope to be back to my usual level of activity in September. Autumn is a good time for me. I enjoy the weather and understand that if I don't take every opportunity to revel in it I might wake up the next day to a foot of snow. It's time to get ready for work.
