---
title: "feigning/fading push/pull: part I"
date: "2008-04-07 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

Again. I sat cross-legged in front of my bookshelf, scanning row after row of books that I've read and others that I've deemed unreadable. Kirkegaard, for instance, had I not the strangely expressed love of suffering through a disposition whose objective was solely to disturb my equanimity. And silver braided inscription--­merely a name running crookedly as if she'd held the book and written it with the same hand. Still, a horror, a marvel. Dreamlike, and I watch desperately for the snow. The faded return, the slumberous respite. Ha ha. How petty?! How extraordinarily petty of the mature, the wealthy, the insolent, to demand the slightest attentions of each other. And how they glance at me with expectation. I decided to make another attempt at finishing it. Forty-five minutes in the bathtub and thirty pages of not wanting to damage or alter the impressions made by her previous hands. It was still wild and inhuman, descriptions of things not people, and I wondered why she would ever want me to read this. Does it change? Will I be swept away with the subtlety of the language and the grandeur of its scope? Or does it just document the same sort of dilemma as the circumstances under which she lent it to me? The dilemma of inhumanity. If it were not for this mystery I should have never thought about it again, never reached to the shelf and thought, "I should read this." Sleeping and dreaming of violence. Fleeing from impressions left upon the soul and reflected outward in those moments when wandering the space of my mind is all that I have. And lately I have been so tired. Napping. Sleeping again at night. Two drunken strangers in a chair. I positioned myself at the greatest reasonable distance, allowing three others to fill the space between. It felt different, the sort of thing and place where adults go to mingle with one another on a Saturday night. Suddenly I felt so juvenile with my books, my bicycles and my language. While others tapped away at their cellphones I held my beer bottle like a child's plaything thinking "small and frequent". I had absolutely nothing to say. The sentiments were as follows (clockwise): disconnect, banality, disinterest, disbelief, contempt, and strangeness. Finally the thought occurred to someone: drink. Ritualistically tipping Dixie cups at just the same angle in just the same fashion, feigning alikeness. "Look how we do the same things and hold the same expressions on our faces!" I attempted to let myself be forgotten, to be prematurely eased from the room by looking with glazed eyes as interested and not uninvested, but certainly not overinvested. As I sat there I thought, "You've shown your true colors, friend, and things will never be the same." I've been trying to ride my bike more. Running has not been very fun or productive, so I've been trying to regain a certain level of fitness via cycling. It's working on some level, as I'm feeling much better on the bike­, almost as good as I did before falling ill, ­but it's difficult to project how much of that fitness will be transferable to running. If nothing else, I hope that I will start enjoying my runs again sometime soon. It's snowing now. April 7th and it's snowing. I was sure that it was warmer last year, but after checking the data I can confirm that last year's high was 35 degrees. I'll run a few miles this morning, if for no other reason than to attest to the shapes.
