---
title: 'to the future'
date: "2010-08-05 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: ['Life', 'Writing']
---

morning. begin the process of generalizing my experience. it was hot and now it is cool. we--the specters of the immediate future--inch along its shore and across its bridges, accounting for driftwood and the precise formation of words. generalizations of trees and people. the substance greater and easily sensed. overwhelming even. looming over its mighty churning form in the spring, the palpable aerosolized *body* breathed in and now a part of me. paradoxically looking down into its magnificence as a shrunken, diseased thing. this spot--this archetype of a *spot*, a place, the *memorabilia* of passivity and commerce--now as much bound to me as the downtown victors in their cloven carriage. inching. *inching*. into the future. produce and project.  
  
it is morning. the cool breeze and the quiet simultaneously infiltrate and change my temperament. the flurry of activity that has consumed the last week has abated and I am left to reflect. I have done a handful of things that are easy to catalog: bikes, *fantastic mr fox*, work, travel, running, weights, letters, restaurant*s*, photography, bars, laundry and cleaning. it is an easy thing to reflect and say, "my life consists of these things." somehow it seems unimpressive. *unimpressive. impressive. impression.* the fundamental difference is not so much in the particular events of my life as much as it is in the ability I have to discern the *impression* that has been given or received. herein, my perceived improvement and capacity for life. while in the past I would struggle to receive *impression* without offering any of my own, I now strive to allow a more natural ebb and flow of contribution. frail. weak. embarrassed. brilliant. beautiful. imaginative. I am no longer a person afraid and perpetually ashamed of the nuances of human experience. of course, the ultimate contradiction is that those nuances dictate an absence of the absolute, meaning that I am a person ashamed and afraid of the frailty of the human experience. the real difference is that I recognize that pulling back cannot protect me from it. as a consequence, fear no longer *defines* my existence. oh, *and* I've developed this unsettling addiction to italicized text. it's a real bitch when writing on facebook.