---
title: 'hesitation'
date: "2005-07-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

we all stoop over yesterday’s lunch, sniffing it in like another way of screaming FUCK. and i…am…DIRTY. and…i…don’t…know…any…better. and…the…machinery…waits. twenty minutes on the fluid trainer because i…am…not…immortal. i will die. how does it linger? and she asks, “it’s everywhere; why?” and i can’t answer but to fall over to my side, starting from an unlikely crease in the hips, and pull my knees to my chest and murmur, “soapsuds, soapsuds.” and…the…machinery…waits. and who can watch me and not shudder and think, “he’s crazy in the worst kind of way.” and two days ago a coworker told me that she thought of me while watching the new willy wonka movie—why do people speak? what do they mean? does she mean that i am an oompah loompah? how do i find out? so i pretended that i was unfamiliar with willy wonka and walked away. and HOW DO I SHRINK? i want to slip through keyholes and down drains. the world will be my makeshift waterslide. and what happened today? i went to work. it was hot and humid and i thought about ice cubes in my pants. i accused a coworker of telling a snowboarding story while gesturing emphatically. i did something else i meant something else. i did something after work but it could have been just about anything because i have to go back there before i even blink. i made coffee twice today and had another glass at work. i consumed somewhere around eighty ounces of coffee and today was only a very average day. i had somewhere around twenty awkward moments and faced only two false accusations. the first involved a woman accusing me of stealing her shopping cart. i looked around helplessly wishing that i had a shopping cart to give her so that she would shut up. and i…am…a…masked…man…marked…by…machinery. and i…am…a…pitiful…indulgence. and beer dribbles down my naked body where i drool on myself. and i feel like an animal pacing in shrinking, plastic habitat. what to do what to do. feed me and care for me and charge admission to watch as i devolve into an ape. and i will grow hair where i have not before. and i will walk on my knuckles and cry. whenever you look at me you will see the glistening of a tear welling, apt to take shape and careen down the folds of skin on my SPONSORED face. i wear advertising like plastic packaging. i advertise for the failed mental health professionals and the streetwalkers. i advertise for the universities that point to my skull and say, “FARM.” i advertise for the factories in taiwan. i advertise for the testicles of men in suits who fuck the lowest bidder. i advertise for arthritis and skin cream and the telltale signs of aging. i advertise for the churches and the saints and the better…men…than…me…buried…in the cold wind. and i advertise for sanctity and impropriety. and i advertise for economics and politics and the anthropologists and the linguists and the skateboarders and the rapists and the serial killers and the priests and the teachers and the students and the SUCKLINGS. and here i am waiting to go to work in seven hours. and here i am ten minutes later. and now. and you read this and think that it was only a moment, not an evolution. but this could be the entire script of my life. this…might…be…everything. that last click and it might be the end. and my imagination has grown tired and it lies in the street, next to a sewer drain. and if only i looked good in a hat. i know. i know. i know. and we chant. undressing the rituals. and we chant. undressing the rituals. and we chant. undressing the rituals. and we chant. and we chant. and we chant. the rituals. the rituals. the rituals. the rituals. i’m wound up. something wasn’t right today. for just over a week i had a new circle of friends here in minnesota— people who i had seen and people whose faces i had familiarized myself enough with to say, “hi. your name is…” but in only a week i proved to them that i’m not stable enough to be their friends. i proved that i’m awkward and haphazard and thrown together like god’s discarded parts. i’m just meant to clean up the bits of shit. so i’m haphazard and lopsided. i don’t look right in a room or under the sun or under the stars. i don’t look right standing next to a tree or in a large, open area. i cross my legs unnaturally and fold my arms and i look uncomfortable like a relic in a pawn shop. and the anthropologists gather on bended knee to photograph me. and the article begins, “what the fuck?” so now those friends are gone again and this new thing, this new feeling, somehow i can believe it will have the stomach! but how silly i must surely look. how foolish i must look to waltz into these new open spaces with a twirl thinking, “this time she will have the stomach and heart for me!” but what if it is my quiet tentacles that are to blame? what if it is my maddening insecurity and the skin of my body that does not match the skin of my brow? and what if it is that i am not interesting, or beautiful, or righteous? what if i am only a scoundrel doing what we scoundrels do best? being defeated. waxing eternally. oh god i must look silly! i hope she isn’t laughing at me and thinking, “oh, that fool!” i’ll twirl, insidious. i…will…inside. i will… falter. i will…now. i can’t…ever. i’ll…think…too…long…I’LL…FUCKING…HESITATE…JUST…WHEN…I…SHOULDN’T…and i have it all to look at later. i have it all to think about and reflect upon. and i have the voices of my family and lost friends to haunt me. and i have geography to tell me how small i am. and i have hunger to tell me how poor i am. and i have a body to tell me how trapped i am. and i have eyes to tell me how delicate i am. and i have dirty hands to tell me how undeserving i am. and i have ears to tell me that…sometimes i can’t make out words the first time i hear them. or the second. and i drink beer six hours before work. oh, i moan!