---
title: "the ability of the mind to retain simple information such as the color and vertical orientation of a light switch: part I"
date: "2008-07-17 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

It's been difficult lately to accept certain sequences. Instead, I find myself wanting to move forward, backwards, to change the speed, to cue a particular level of color saturation...the motion, my interpretation of the motion resulting in an obscene expectation that I can forever vacillate without detriment to myself or others. Unsteadily, warily I recognize that faith is a matter decided in moments of sublime fragility, when one's being requires an alternative substance to fill in the fissures of personal deterioration. I love to think about this idea. I love to observe it manifest itself in conviction and passion, and fully retained in recovery. How absurd it seems then, the impact of the overly consequential and under rationalized silhouetted against the darkening gray horizon of another day led safely away. It is not a failure of recognition or an inability to exist free from mockery, but rather an indistinguishable and transparent product of a slight alteration in the appearance of a once dull figure standing awkwardly against its gray horizon. I wonder quietly as I betray my conscience--the reader taking upon their famished self an idea, running in madness to its base of wonderment and finding only the discouragement of fingers, hands, tangled limbs, injured countenance, and stuttered conversation. The idea becomes a failed representation, a series of incompatible starts, stops and severed sensations all strung tackily together like strands of christmas lights. And I beg for continuity and receive only mediocrity of idea, a willingness to work handily if directed in a straight line. Dullards and zombies on their feet mixing about in godless dance. I know almost nothing about the little things, the buzzwords that people repeat in their heads as they dull themselves to sleep. Every laundry machine that I have ever seen has a setting for PERMANENT PRESS, yet I have never heard anyone say the words, "PERMANENT PRESS." The language simply does not exist. It is an incompatibility within the extensive nature of a creature that has a subterranean language of ideas, images, phrases and desires that manifest only as covert glances or words muttered in empty hallways. Still, even while starving for uniqueness we distance ourselves from this disquiet free-flowing, untapped and unknown quantity. How often there is nothing at all to say even when words are bubbling angrily just behind eyes that might belong to the dead! So I feel, I observe, I recognize a shared faith between this pair of twisted creatures, yet I am incapable of expressing or even evidencing this kindness, this essential human thing. Only when we are frightened. Only when we are fractured. I look back at my writing and it is only in the in-between, the places where my identity has grown murky, when I have felt a false sense of anonymity, that I have accessed this cauldron (a word I wanted much earlier). 

I am trying to learn to read. The pages feel disgusting and the text is both the wrong face and size. It spans the page inelegantly and I suffer to connect one line to the next. It is as if I am being told a story from an open window several stories above me. I can't quite grasp it. I can't feel that intangible quality that enlivens an experience for which my primitive self has nothing but disdain. How I fight this monster or false impressions! I sip a beer without becoming drunk and think of all of the people that I do not know and the comforting lights of the cityscape. Sometimes I think that I would die alone in the woods, but I know that I would just adapt. It would become regular, just as waking up on one side of the bed or the other becomes regular. When I was younger I had a fascination with rearranging the things in my room. It was never for efficiency and only occasionally because I was bored. I wanted to be frightened. I wanted to wake up, bump my elbow into the wall and wonder what was happening. Confusion brought glee, a sense that I no longer had to accumulate different degrees of familiarity with different things. I collected things. When I knew how to order at a restaurant I would only eat at that restaurant until I woke up frightened and devastated. It didn't matter any longer. I recognized the people in my life as strangers with equally weak appetites for retention.