---
title: 'notes'
date: "2010-08-23 12:00:00"
template: post.html
description: 
categories: Life
---

Last night my dreams were of clementine. they were not mournful or focused on my sense of loss. It was amazing to me the amount of detail that I recalled, but not only that, the way in which I merged this with an interpretation of future growth. The series of dreams spanned much of the night. Interludes of *waking* segmented different periods of her life. After ten consecutive days of work, I had yesterday off. I should have taken the opportunity to rest and prepare for another hectic week. I didn't. Today I am tired in spite of foregoing socializing for dinner and sleep. My keen cycling sandals broke. They both exploded. This saddens me. It's now either regular shoes with platform pedals or carbon fiber sole *racing shoes*. The other night we watched *Kicking and Screaming*. I think I have now completed the Noah Baumbach journey. It was a good one. Earlier in the week I went to a documentary about George Mallory at the uptown theatre. It wasn't a very good film, but I really enjoyed the experience and intend to see more movies. It's expensive, but not really *that expensive*. Late weeknight showings are particularly enchanting as I'm left to contemplate the few faces with whom I share the theatre. Even though there have reportedly been "no accidents" on Hennepin, there are many stories like this: "I had just the opposite experience last night - actually got bonked into by a car on Hennepin - left a very big scratch in the paint of the lady's Jetta that had been messing with me for a couple of blocks - she kept trying to push me to the curb, and then came way too close to me trying to turn right on 6th - I got my left brake lever on the corner of her fender as she pushed into me, and I stopped - causing a long scratch in her paint - she yelled at me pretty good, and I told her I was riding in the bike lane and we could go talk to the cop sitting on the other side - she drove off - I continued riding." Maybe they don't count as "accidents" because car drivers are hitting cyclists intentionally. In that case, it might be true. optimus prime goes to paint within the week. excitement abounds.