---
title: 'riding bikes: 33x18'
date: "2009-10-10 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

Life without a karate monkey is inconceivable. I've decided this after purchasing my third karate monkey last week. Stock singlespeed MTB with a suspension fork. I figured it would be an injustice to live so close to mediocre mountain biking and not take advantage of it. I briefly tried borrowing matt's beloved kona, but it was just too small--five inches of handlebar drop with the stem teetering at the max height line--so I betrayed my anti-consumerist rant after only a week. This year has been marked by failure. I will remember it that way. 'Oh, yeah, twenty-eight years old...that's when I failed at a bunch of stuff.' Interesting. Originally Jeff and I had planned a moderately epic journey down the Luce Line to Lake Minnetonka, across Lake Minnetonka by boat, and back via the LRT. It was sound in principal, much like the ill fated Saint Croix trip that I opted out of because of hateful saddle sores. That trip didn't end very well. Ours probably wouldn't have either, but the threat of storms curtailed any chance for epic failure. Instead we pieced together a haphazard journey through the city, down the Luce Line, to a gas station in Long Lake, and back. It wans't interesting. My gearing was considerably wrong. I was spinning 100-120rpm constantly, with 180mm cranks and 2.3 inch knobby tires. The crank length was awkward at such high cadences. I did seem to have a bit more leverage climbing, especially seated, but it could just have been the dual effect of placebo and being in a more comfortable rpm range. I ended up at 51.1 miles for the day. Everything was comfortable. The fit was nice and the saddle was infinitely more comfortable than I expected (it looks bizarre). I took the fork off of lockout for a couple sections of singletrack, and it seemed to perform nicely. Overall I give it the thumbs up. Can't wait to hit some more extensive trails with it. I may switch to a dos eno (17/19) in back and run a 33/35 up front. It would give a slightly lower gear for the trail and a reasonable road gear for cruising at 18- 19mph.