---
title: 'sigh'
date: "2010-01-23 12:00:00"
template: post.html
---

up until a week ago this winter has been exceptionally pleasant. autumn transitioned seamlessly into winter. the roads were mostly in passable condition with very little ice. it was a veritable playground for the pugsley. I suffered little unease or discomfort riding my normal route to work. I would almost argue that it was more fun than my commute to work in the summer. however, abnormally high temperatures have now ruined winter. the daily thaw/freeze cycle has even been accelerated by intermittent rain. yeah, rain in january. I nearly crashed in the morning coming off of the sabo bridge. from the east end of the bridge to the river road it was a solid sheet of ice. I proceeded slowly. eventually I made it to work without crashing. I was intent on preserving my zero-crash winter (I don't count slow speed tip-overs while mountain biking...of which I've had a few). on my way home I took the short route. that was a mistake. the secret road was absolutely terrible. the entrance was not only smoothly polished ice, but its banked design left me slithering uncomfortably down its side. I inched my way forward. the ice did not end until the stone arch bridge. I relaxed a little bit. I was riding on snow again. I passed a couple of lovers gazing out at the city. seconds later I hit a lumpy mess of ice and crashed loudly. at this point in my life I am fairly good at crashing. even though I was traveling around 15mph (very fast for me in the winter), there was little damage to me or the bike. I got back up and cautiously continued home. by the time I reached my front door I was forced to concede that pugsley needs a vacation.