---
title: "the move: part I"
date: "2007-07-27 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I move every year and a half. I haven't lived anywhere longer than a year and a half since I graduated high school. This will be the twelfth time that I have moved. I hate moving, and I keep telling myself that I will not do it any more than necessary. At times though it seems inescapable, with each move accompanied by a poignant assessment that it's time to be getting on. This round has been brought about primarily by the bitter realization that I cannot financially sustain the lifestyle that I am leading. It's been two and a half years since I've lived with another human being. I go home at night, and unless something is out of the ordinary, I sleep without pause or consideration, waking as I please, making noise or being quiet as I please, and so on. Perhaps I will like it, or at least feel better about my environmental impact, or if not that, that I have a few extra dollars in my account to distribute to disgruntled money lenders. Last night I started the onerous task of toting my things by bicycle to my new home. The route was mostly uphill and I had over one hundred pounds loaded on the trailer. I quickly discovered that lower gearing will be necessary if I intend to continue using my singlespeed mountain bike for trailer duty. I brought over a large bin of bike parts, a cut off saw, and a sawzall. To further complicate matters, the gate to the state fairgrounds was closed just far enough that I could not pass with the trailer. This meant taking Larpenteur. As I was going home I noticed a weird vibration. It was either the trailer falling apart or a flat tire. I got off my bike, listening to the slight whistle of air escaping from my rear tire. Unpleasant. I walked the rest of the way home, thinking how peculiar it was that my mountain bike should get a flat in a few short miles while I have ridden my road bike for thousands of miles without a flat. This would blow the minds of many consumers. I should get ready for work now.