---
title: "junkie: part I"
date: "2007-09-14 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: 
tags: 
---

I know this guy who has a weird obsession with knives. Somewhere on the internet he even has a photo-blog of some of his especially cherished knives. Last night I woke up at least four different times. I felt like a junkie in need of a fix, but without any idea of the shape of my fix. Knives? Probably not. Heroin? Doubtful. I've been teetering on the brink of getting sick. I ran almost twenty-one mile miles yesterday. Perhaps my body was in trauma, trying to recover and submit all at once, unsure whether it should confide anything in me at all, wary of trusting itself to my foolhardy whims. During my run yesterday I noted only two peculiar occurrences. The first happened around the third mile when I noticed tiny footsteps tapping next to me and looked down to see a small dog alongside me. Its life partner went by shortly thereafter, offering me none of the camaraderie--­a smile, a glance, recognition--­that fellow runners typically exhibit. I'll admit, she was fast and pretty, so her arrogance was well earned, if arrogance can be such a thing. Around the tenth mile I turned toward the Ford bridge and suddenly saw two deer standing in the middle of the running path. I blinked, unsure whether I was simply inventing things in the stupor that sometimes accompanies long distance running. Normally such invention does not occur so early in a run, so I was fairly certain that they were real. I moved closer, stopped. One left the path while the other simply looked at me. I felt more love emanating from that creature than most human beings I have known. It felt familiar and for a moment I wanted to believe in god. Perhaps in that moment I did. Eventually I continued, the deer moving just far enough off the path so that I could pass. The rest of the run was ordinary except the degree to which it sucked. I was strong through the sixteenth mile. At that point I hit a wall. A combination of overtraining, undernourishment and being slightly ill combined to make the last several miles a cornucopia of pain and delirium. I was a junkie in need of a fix. Pain? Maybe.