---
title: "distress: part I"
date: "2007-09-03 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: Running
tags: 
---

It was dark in my room when I woke up. I was absolutely certain that it was not yet time to wake up, but I checked the clock on my computer anyway. It was 5:34am. Close enough, I thought and wandered toward the kitchen to start phase two of carbohydrate loading. I didn't feel very good, but the crisp morning air convinced me that at least the weather would not oppose me as relentlessly as it did last week. I boiled water, snapped linguine noodles in lackluster but ritualistic fashion, and tapped my foot to the perfect rhythm that I intended but never could reproduce with both feet. I was training my mind to center on that ideal cadence, that flourish of life that so articulately complemented the rising and falling breath and vacillating congruency of the heart. I forced the sticky, overcooked pasta down the back of my throat. The sky faded from black to gray to blue. I finished eating and flipped through my yoga book, selecting a few stretches that seemed useful for easing my still slumbering muscles out of their stupor. I was ready. 

At University I saw a girl on a red three speed schwinn, pedaling effortlessly while holding a cup of coffee. She wore a dress and seemed a beautiful anachronism. I thought I might have known her. 

Both before leaving and the previous evening I consumed way too much water. After suffering from poor hydration on my last long run I was insistent on preventing a repeat performance. In my over-exuberance I consumed so much water that I had to urinate furiously by the second mile. I warn my readers that this is where my account becomes rather unpleasant. Anyone made squeamish by imperfect bodily functions should probably stop reading. I digress. By the fifth mile I again had to urinate, but also sensed an unpleasant twisting in my abdomen. I made it to the port-a-potty at Summit and the river road, expelling a relieved sigh before reaching for the non-existent toilet paper. My eyes remained unmoved, locked in horror as I contemplated what the final fifteen miles would be like with shit residue squishing around in my running shorts. After a moment I decided that there was nothing that could be done. I pulled up my shorts, informed Ryan that he ought to run upwind of me and prepared for the worst. 

We continued to the Hidden falls area where a portly man gulped water and spit it back over the fountain. He wore absurdly colored running shorts and thick mats of glistening body hair. My stomach still had not settled and I sipped with a sense of unease and doom. I'd watched for a restroom since we had left Summit, but no such thing existed. A mile later and the stomach pain had returned. I knew that I only had moments before I would shit my pants so I diverted course to a scenic trail bypass and ambled off a few feet into the brush. I squatted, working the geometry so as to avoid shitting directly on the shorts that rested around my ankles, praying that no one would stumble upon me and be horrified at the naked man squatting along the trail. It was not pleasant. It was not solid. Ryan was several feet away on the elevated section of the trail, standing lookout should anyone attempt to enter the woods at the same point as me. Hello, he'd say frantically, can you tell me how to get to Minneapolis?! No! That's not a man shitting in the woods! It's a bear RARRRR@##$ The foul stench drifted to the elevated trail and anyone passing later would surely think that the river had churned up something awful. I stood up, curiously free in my nakedness and gingerly pulled my shorts to my waist. The run continued and I made the decision that my running shorts would find the dumpster when I returned home. They were on their final voyage and I was going to make it an awesome one. 

For a couple miles after the incident we could not stop laughing. As awfully as things were going the humour of the situation could not be dulled even by the most serious concentration. My abs hurt as I tried to maintain course while seizing in reckless fits of giggling. Something about shitting in the woods made me feel the accumulated joy of my childhood, magnified by my appreciation for it as an adult. 

Around mile eleven we reached a port-a-potty on the west side of the river and I had a chance to clean up to the degree that the facilities allowed. At this point my hamstring started cramping. I reflected later that the myriad of problems I encountered helped to distract me from the distance of the run. Small consolation, admittedly. At the water fountain of requirement I ate a gel pack and stretched. I was feeling better as we reached the hill that led up to the campus bridge. A girl in white rounded just before us but started walking almost immediately. I was jealous. I wanted to walk too. But I didn't. I wasn't going to let my New Balance running shorts go out like that. We reached the transitway and, although I was still feeling decent, I was wary of the final unrelentingly uphill portion of the route. The slight grade of the transitway was followed by the steeper grades of Raymond and C leveland. My breathing was heavy and irregular. I did nothing to conceal it. My brief and infrequent entries into conversation were disjointed and incomprehensible. I'm suffering, I said, as if it would go unnoticed. Suffering! 

It was over. Nineteen and a half miles.
