---
title: 'Day thirteen'
date: "2010-11-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
tags: 'meeting michelle'
categories: Life
---

**Day thirteen. **You found me at your front door with the last of my three bikes. *Brown and black!* You liked the colors. We went upstairs. It was cold outside so you had a pile of clothing ready on your bed. *It's supposed to rain tonight, but not until after midnight, *I told you. You got dressed. I touched your face. As we rode towards the city I lost myself to the crunching sound of my new studded tires, the ones that I bought impulsively the previous spring...the ones that made THIS a possibility. We parked our bikes near Acadia and went inside. There wasn't a place to sit and it was loud, so we decided to go somewhere else. I suddenly very much wanted a dark beer so we walked to Town Hall Brewery. Once we were inside it felt wrong. It was noisy and the smells and sounds reminded me of a Denny's. *Let's go somewhere else.* I loved that we were both okay with this, that you didn't mind wandering around the city with me until we found just the *right *place to eat dinner. We walked to Hard Times. CLOSED UNTIL SUNDAY. What? You remembered a Thai place. It was just like you described it: small but with the most wonderfully utilized space. We chose a spot near the window. Candles flickered ever so slightly and I could feel the vague cold penetrating the window. I moved my chair to be next to you. Sitting with our legs touching is one of my favorite things. This was the perfect place to eat dinner. It pleased me so much to look at my food, especially in the candlelight. The depth of browns and greens, the spear shaped sprouts, the flat fried tofu enlivened my senses and made me wonder if everything was better because of you. I asked, *Where have you been?* I didn't expect your answer...this *story*. You told me, deliberately (in the beautiful way that you tell a story) where you had been and some of the people you remembered. It was the kind of sprawling narrative that I should have expected from *you*. How could you possibly understand the things you understand without such a story? For a moment I felt small, inclined to become self*central* to this narrative and find myself nothing more than a chapter. I told you this. *Egocentric*...that's the word that I used to describe my response. I wanted to believe that I was a bigger part of your story, but that would be ridiculous. Thirty years do not pass without a story, and if they do, you are not the person capable of sharing experiences with me. *I'll get over it*, I promised. Already it started to be true. I remembered that we're making this thing together, right now, and that it could be anything (everything). 9:20pm. We noted the time and reminded ourselves that we would need to leave in ten or fifteen minutes to get to the puppet show. I blinked. It was 9:56pm, we hadn't left the restaurant and suddenly realized that we didn't know where we were going. We started walking without any firm sense of our destination. I liked this. It was cold. You skipped to get warm. I reminded myself that I could and should do that with you: drop the inhibition. You called Leif and we followed his directions behind a building, between some dumpsters and through a mysterious door labeled WATERBOX. We'd missed the start of the show but were told that there would be another show immediately after the conclusion of the first. We went downstairs to wait. It was a strange space, nearly abandoned except for a couple of tables and equipment for a dance party. A man in a suit and a fancy-feathered-hat manipulated the lighting. On the table: Dominos (the game). It was surreal. We went to the ground floor where small groups of people were gathered in conversation, staying for a moment before climbing the stairs to the second floor. The first show had not yet finished so we waited, listening to the sounds and observing the subtly shifting light patterns. It concluded. A mass of people slowly oozed into the room. Each floor seemed more surreal than the last. I was sure that if we climbed to the third floor we would enter a dream together. We got a GOOD spot near the front and waited it for IT to begin while being that couple that formerly inspired your/my jealousy. The show was captivating. I didn't move a muscle for twenty minutes. With my sensitivity to *sensation *already heightened (by YOU), my ability to receive and perceive this expression was mind boggling. I didn't want it to end. But it did. We went outside. I noticed the ground shimmering in the light. The rain had started. The world was now covered in a layer of ice. We shuffled along the back of the building giggling and *playing*. We decided to walk to the lightrail as riding home would be nearly impossible. A few minutes passed and the train arrived. Moments later we were not far from your house, skating without skates, fully immersed in the world being better because of you, because of US. I contemplated this hilarious, inconceivable night and how everything was interesting and beautiful--my mind, body...the intangible quality of synergistic-sensory-perception all thrust into this greater intimacy and engagement with life. We had tea. Tullio followed us to your bedroom. You played guitar. I rubbed his belly and watched your hands, absorbing and appreciating what you were creating for me. I fell asleep with your skin next to my skin. I comfortably drifted into a sound and dreamless sleep, dreams already spent on living.