---
title: 'Get lucky half marathon and VV ride'
date: "2012-03-22 12:00:00"
template: post.html
categories: ['Cycling', 'Running']
tags: ['half marathon', 'group ride', 'veloviet']
---

My plan for the weekend ended up being more ambitious than anticipated. On Saturday I woke up early, made pancakes, and mentally prepared myself for the [Get Lucky Half Marathon][1]. In spite of rousing myself from slumber at 5am, I found myself frantically re-wrapping my hand wound, hustling to my bike, and pedaling furiously to make it to the start line on time. Pancakes can apparently consume a man's life for impressive periods of time. Once near the start, I squeezed my way closer to the 1h50m pace group. My goal was 1h45m, but given the weird training schedule necessitated by the ugly pairing of injuries to my face and hand, I wanted to open conservatively. The morning was humid, causing a unique March 17th concern to emerge: *"What if I am too hot?"* 

I quickly settled in to a rhythm, expecting to pass the pacer at any moment. That didn't happen. I pushed a little bit faster, and my finger started throbbing. I backed off and the throbbing stopped. *Okay*, so I effectively had one of those annoying heart rate monitors programmed to emit piercing sounds at a particular HR threshold. It was fine, but I knew that I wasn't going to hit my goal time. My secondary goal quickly became, *beat my Polar Dash time*. The first half of the course was almost entirely downhill. I kept a pace that I hoped would match the one running back up the hill on the return trip. It was a simple strategy. People consistently passed me on the downhill. I questioned myself.  
  
I reached the turnaround and began running back up the hill. To my surprise, an alarming number of people in front of me had started walking. Why would someone run 8m30s miles for half of the event, and then *walk*? It seemed like a brutal way to do the event. I guess the warm weather bred overconfidence. I felt great coming back up the hill. I tend to be poor at propelling myself downhill--whether on a bike or foot--and much better going uphill. Around mile ten the road flattened out again and I felt slow. With a mile to go I knew that even my Polar Dash time would slip away. It was just one of those days. I leisurely ran to the finish line and stopped the clock at 1h54m37s. Sometimes just getting out there and doing it on the day that you don't have it ends up being the most gratifying. My performance did not get me a PR, it did not inspire my future training or validate my past training, but for some reason, I still felt good.  

Due to a bit of brazen foolishness, I planned a Veloviet/Bicycle Chain ride for the following morning. After only 3.5 hours of sleep I awoke for more pancakes. Riding was awkward and I felt slow. I met Kai and we rode to the shop to meet Bryce, Quang, Seth, and Tony. I felt *miserable* for the first hour and a half. The road was bumpy and I had to pull my hand from the bars to lessen the painful impacts on my finger. Once we were out of the city and riding up some hills, I felt much better. After plodding up the first climb, I took a more purposeful pace up Mounds. I suddenly felt invincible. I accelerated easily, still not pushing myself anywhere near 100%. This pattern continued. I felt great on the hills and awful on the flats and descents. Bryce hammered the pace as we pointed ourselves towards Afton. The group was strong, but Bryce was riding at an especially high level. It was a proud moment, as it was only last year that I introduced him to "group rides".  
  
We stopped in Afton for a snack. I was having fun now. Immediately after leaving the cafe we started the longest ascent of the ride. It's a slightly lesser known hill south of Afton. It's nearer the river than Saint Croix trail and covers more elevation in less distance than the well traveled path. Additionally, it's lovely. At the bottom of the climb, Quang got out of the saddle and accelerated. I followed. He periodically looked back, while trying to zig-zag me off of his wheel. Hah ha. Friendly competition is fun sometimes. At the switchback where you think it might let up (and it doesn't), he sat up, moaned, and announced, "*I'm done.*" I passed and accelerated towards my meaningless, but oh-so-meaningful, imaginary victory. Bryce managed to edge his way into second. We casually rode back towards Roseville. Aside from finger pain on the bumpier sections, it was an excellent way to spend my Sunday morning. I love the spring rides when my winter fitness gives me an advantage over riders who will be strong than me by the end of the summer.

 [1]: http://www.getluckytc.org