---
date: "2007-03-30 12:00:00"
template: post.html
title: '13.47miles in 1:56: part I'
---

It's been a long time since I've written anything. It's the sort of thing that happens in the early spring when my mind is bubbling with so many ideas of how to enjoy the things that I've forgotten over the course of the winter. For instance: I remember, now, the sound of my bicycle tires purring at twenty-five miles per hour while I try to keep my upper body perfectly still, hands light on the handlebars. Today I decided to simulate a half marathon under race'esque conditions. My original goal was to be just a shade over two hours, but after the first couple miles I was feeling exceptionally good and went for a sub two hour time. I knew that the real test was going to be cutting through the Reservoir woods which is a long, grueling climb (by midwestern standards) that gains over two hundred feet in less than a mile. I pushed hard, and looking at my motionbased data for that section I see that I maintained a 6.6mph average. Awesome. A month ago I was battling my shoes and a lingering feeling of illness and lethargy. Today I felt alive and motivated, happy to be healthy and enjoying the cloudy but palatable day. My final stats were: 13.47miles in 1h56m. This would have put me at a half marathon in about 1h53m. I spent the evening trying to recover, switching between reading, resting motionless on the couch, and eating. It's the middle of the night. I wake up and continue this blog entry. It's raining. A moment ago I was standing in the near dark when the spring's first recognizable thunder preceded the dimming of leds and the slamming of our two magnetized hallway firedoors. The power came back a second later, but I didn't feel like going back to sleep. I had been having a dream. I was scratching a poem with my fingernail on my bed, fiercely trying to get the words down as quickly as they were coming to me when I heard a tap at my window. Immediately, I knew who it was. I had been thinking about her as I was biking home from the grocery store earlier in the evening. Speaking of which, I saw the following oddities on the same trip: a deer (I stopped, dismounted my bicycle and watched it run next to the train that was passing over the bridge near my apartment), a scooter or moped type device passing a pickup truck (the truck was traveling at least the speed limit, possibly faster), and a man unicycling around the lake (this has been a dream of mine, and when we made eye contact I gave him an enthusiastic `awesome!'). I have a very small scar on my front deltoid. I have no idea how it got there. Perhaps I am being self absorbed, with all of this talk about the things that I am doing and thinking. Although I must say, I am feeling much better about things, now more resolute in my conviction that there are eventualities and contingencies that I have allowed but cannot, in hindsight, unallow. I will post this now in the interest of proving to the interweb that I have not perished.